anaoxygenic photosynthesis	A type of photosynthesis in green and purple bacteria in which oxygen is not produced
stamen	The part of the flower that produces pollen
rigidity	Stiffness or tenseness of muscles; inability to bend or be bent.
platelet	A small enucleated blood cell important in blood clotting; derived from large cells in the bone marrow.
strict anaerobe	An organism that cannot survive in an atmosphere of oxygen
artificial vagina	A device for collecting semen.
nitidus	shining: applied to a highly polished, smooth surface.
f-prime	An extrachromosomal F-plasmid that carries a fragment of chromosomal DNA.
confused	a marking with indefinite outlines: a running together as of lines and spots without definite pattern.
global warming potential	number that represents the relative contribution of a molecule of an atmospheric gas to global warming
midbrain	A part of the brain that is mainly concerned with the control of eye movement
lampbrush chromosome	Giant diplotene chromosome found in the oocyte nucleus
gel shift assay	Also known as gel retardation assay or gel mobility shift assay
alkaliphile	An organism that grows optimally at high pH (alkaline conditions)
laterad	toward the side and away from the median line.
electron acceptor	Atom or molecule that takes up electrons readily, thereby gaining an electron and becoming reduced.
adrenalitis	Inflammation of the adrenal gland.
longevity	The average life span of individuals in a population.
contraception	The prevention of pregnancy.
nadp	Abbreviation of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate, a coenzyme that functions as an electron acceptor in the lightdependent reactions of photosynthesis.
effected	somewhat angularly bent outward.
median shade or line	in Lepidoptera, crosses at or about middle of wings.
net primary productivity	The amount of energy primary producers (organisms that produce their own food from an external energy source such as the sun) capture and convert to tissue minus the amount they lose in cellular respiration.
triquetral	= triquetrous.
noncovalent attraction	Chemical bond in which, in contrast to a covalent bond, no electrons are shared
crystalline	transparent, like crystal.
solute	A substance that is dissolved in a solution.
groundwater	Water found underground as a result of rainfall, ice and snow melt, submerged rivers, lakes, and springs
accrete	v
pseudopodia	Fingerlike extensions from an amoeboid cell; literally "false feet".
peyer's patch	A region of lymphoid tissue in the submucosa of the intestine that is rich in B cells and germinal centers.
albedo	ratio of electromagnetic radiation reflected relative to the amount of radiation incident on a surface
synchronous	happening at the same time.
polyphyletic	genetically heterogeneous, because of having arisen from different ancestral groups.
arginine	A non-essential amino acid believed to play a part in the neurodegeneration of HD.
macronutrients	fats, carbohydrates, and proteins that provide essentially all of the energy and most of the raw material for repair and synthesis
alcohol	A compound consisting of a hydrocarbon skeleton with one or more hydroxyl group
biology	The scientific study of life.
cope's rule	The generalization (not always confirmed) that body size tends to increase in an animal lineage during its evolution.
horotelic	Evolving at a comparatively average rate.
g protein–coupled receptor	Member of an important class of cell-surface receptors that have seven transmembrane α helices and are directly coupled to a trimeric G protein
mole	One gram molecular weight of a compound
oxygen-transport pigment	See respiratory pigment.
bordeaux mixture	the first practical fungicide used by Millardet in 1883-1885 against downy mildew of grape vine (Plasmopara viticola), and still in general use for controlling many plant diseases; it contains 4 parts copper sulphate, 4 parts quicklime, 500 parts water.
dictyosome	see GOLGI BODY.
corticosteroid	Any steroid hormone produced and secreted by the adrenal cortex.
chemoautotroph	Organism that obtains energy from the oxidation of chemical, generally inorganic, compounds and carbon from carbon dioxide.
manicate -us	fur-like: surface clothed with irregular depressed hair.
inflammatory response	A localized innate immune defense triggered by physical injury or infection of tissue in which changes to nearby small blood vessels enhance the infiltration of white blood cells, antimicrobial proteins, and clotting elements that aid in tissue repair and destruction of invading pathogens; may also involve systemic effects such as fever and increased production of white blood cells.
haemoglobin	the coloring matter of blood which serves to carry oxygen.
oligonucleotide chips	Oligonucleotide chips consist of small glass plates with thousands of short 20-mer oligonucleotide probes attached to their surface
lenticular	round, doubly convex; like a lens or lentil.
alcohol	An organic compound containing a -OH group
cell	The fundamental unit of life.
anaerobic	Describes a cell, organism, or metabolic process that functions in the absence of air or, more precisely, in the absence of molecular oxygen (O2).
ribosomes	Components within cells that assist in making proteins from amino acids.
intermediary metabolism	In cells, the enzyme-catalyzed reactions that extract chemical energy from nutrient molecules and utilize it to synthesize and assemble cell components.
nitrogen fixation	Reduction of dinitrogen gas (N2) to ammonia (NH3) by the enzyme nitrogenase.
carbonyl groups	A functional group present in aldehydes and ketones and consisting of a carbon atom double-bonded to an oxygen atom.
section	A very thin slice of tissue, suitable for viewing under the microscope.
imprinting	a biochemical phenomenon that determines, for certain genes, which one of the pair of alleles, the mother's or the father's, will be active in that individual.
arboviruses	Arthropod-borne viruses.
transfection	An artificial process of infecting cells with naked viral DNA.
multiple alignment	An alignment of multiple sequences that inserts gaps into the individual sequences in order to align conserved sequences in the same column.
extense	extended: expanded.
longitudinal study	A study that follows a population forward over time.
terrestrial	On the ground; also on or of the planet Earth.
combinatorial chemistry	The use of chemistry to generate large numbers of molecules that are different but are structurally related
medusa	The floating, flattened, mouth-down version of the cnidarian body plan
amino acid	An organic acid containing an amino group (-NH2) and a carboxyl group (-COOH)
wavelength	The distance between crests of waves, such as those of the electromagnetic spectrum.
non-tandem duplication	Aberration in which the duplicated segment of a chromosome is not adjacent to the original copy.
chemical bond	An attraction between two atoms, resulting from a sharing of outer-shell electrons or the presence of opposite charges on the atoms
veneral disease	Disease spread by sexual intercourse.
micro-	Prefix denoting 10–6.
deletion	Type of mutation in which a single nucleotide or sequence of nucleotides has been removed from the DNA.
synaptic signaling	Type of cell–cell communication that occurs across chemical synapses in the nervous system.
nucleus	A cluster of functionally related neuronal cell bodies in a vertebrate central nervous system.
polynucleotide	A covalently linked sequence of nucleotides in which the 3' hydroxyl of the pentose of one nucleotide residue is joined by a phosphodiester bond to the 5' hydroxyl of the pentose of the next residue.
genoholotype	the species on which a genus is founded, whether unique or one of a series, specifically named as generic type by the author.
haplotype	Particular combination of closely linked alleles that tend to be inherited as a unit.
polyatomic molecule	molecule consisting of three or more atoms
tetrad	A paired set of homologous chromosomes, each composed of two sister chromatids
competition	Relationship between organismic units (for example, individuals, groups, species) attempting to exploit a limited common resource in which each unit inhibits, to varying degrees, the survival or proliferation of another unit by means other than predation.
terminal	situated at the tip or extremity; opposed to basal.
metabolic pathway	A sequence of chemical reactions involved in metabolism
sub-parallel	nearly parallel.
hydrogen bond	A type of weak chemical bond formed when the slightly positive hydrogen atom of a polar covalent bond in one molecule is attracted to the slightly negative atom of a polar covalent bond in another molecule.
polygonal	with many angles.
monosaccharide	A carbohydrate consisting of a single sugar unit.
live cell array	A micro-system for the high-throughput analysis of intact cells.
dormant	/DORE-mənt, -mant/ adj
hydrofluorocarbons	compounds of hydrogen, fluorine, and carbon
efferent	carrying outward or away from the centre.
carbon cycle	Sequence where carbon dioxide is converted to organic forms by photosynthesis or chemosynthesis, recycled through the biosphere, with partial incorporation into sediments, and ultimately returned to its original state through respiration or combustion.
supernumerary	additional or added cells, veins or other structures.
elevate -us	a part higher than its surroundings.
cross resistance	The condition in which resistance to one pesticide or antibiotic confers increased resistance to a second pesticide or antibiotic.
erect	standing upright; not necessarily perpendicular.
integral proteins	penetrate the hydrophobic core of the lipid bilayer, often completely spanning the membrane (as transmembrane proteins).
curated database	A database developed by a curator with domain expertise
endergonic reaction	A nonspontaneous chemical reaction, in which free energy is absorbed from the surroundings.
atom	smallest unit of an element that can exist as a stable, independent entity
diffusion	The spontaneous tendency of a substance to move down its concentration gradient from a more concentrated to a less concentrated area.
function	the work or duty which a given part or organ normally performs.
flavin adenine dinucleotide	A coenzyme that functions as an electron carrier in oxidation/reduction reactions.
praire restoration	An attempt to recreate a prairie climax community within 10 years, when this process naturally takes several hundred years through manipulation of mechanisms of succession to rapidly achieve climax conditions by greatly increasing seed availability, reducing competition by early-successional species, and amending soil to better match late-succession conditions.
complex medium	Medium whose precise chemical composition is unknown
hydrophilic	Describes a polar molecule or part of a molecule that forms enough energetically favorable interactions with water molecules to dissolve readily in water
dorso-ventral	in a line from the upper to the lower surface.
crossing-over	During the first meioticprophase
matrix	The nonliving component of connective tissue, consisting of a web of fibers embedded in homogeneous ground substance that may be liquid, jellylike, or solid.
density-dependent inhibition	The phenomenon observed in normal animal cells that causes them to stop dividing when they come into contact with one another.
entomotomist	a student of insect structure.
isotope	One of two or more variations of the same chemical element, differing in the number of neutrons not the number of protons.
amyloid	Another term for beta-amyloid
batch culture	Growth of bacteria in a fixed volume of liquid medium in a closed vessel, with no additions or removals made during the period of incubation.
solution	A liquid that is a homogeneous mixture of two or more substances.
deletion	A removal of a portion of a gene.
internode	In plants, the region of the stem between where the leaves are attached.
intervening sequence	See intron.
photic zone	The narrow top slice of the ocean, where light permeates sufficiently for photosynthesis to occur.
starch	a complex polymer of glucose, used by plants and green algae to store surplus sugar for later use.
vitamin c	A vitamin with antioxidant properties that may help protect nerve cells from free radical damage and glutamate toxicity
genotype	The precise genetic constitution of an organism
regression	A statistic that describes the relationship of two variables
concurrent	applied to a vein which arises separately, runs into another and does-not again separate.
basal ganglion	Singular form of basal ganglia.
converging	approaching each other toward the tip.
antiserum	The blood serum obtained from an animal after it has been immunized with a particular antigen
fissate	divided or split: with fissures or cracks.
amoeba	A genus of free-living amoebae
lanceolate	lance- or spear-shaped: oblong and tapering to the end.
homoeochromatism	applied when over a given region many butterflies tend to vary similarly as regards color.
difformis	irregular in form or outline: not comparable; anomalous
heterolactic fermentation	A type of lactic acid fermentation in which sugars (e.g
ureter	The duct that carries nitrogenous waste from the kidney to the bladder.
coadaptation	Process of selection acting on units of two or more genes.
cork	The outer layer of the bark in woody plants; composed of dead cells
great chain of being	The eighteenth-century concept that instead of a static universe, there is a continuous progression of stages leading to a superior supernatural being; the transformation of the "Ladder of Nature" into a succession of moving platforms.
industrial melanism	The effect of soot and pollution in industrial areas in increasing the frequency of darkly pigmented (melanic) forms perhaps because of selection by predators against nonpigmented or lightly pigmented forms.
indigenous species	A species that is native to a give area if its presence was obtained by natural processes.
phenotypic value	The measurement of a given quantitative trait for a given individual.
all-or-none	Occurring fully or not at all; not graded.
termination sequence	A DNA sequence that appears at the end of a transcriptional unit and signals the end of transcription.
cerebellar cortex	The outermost portion of the cerebellum.
overstory	The larger, taller trees that of a forest that overtop and shade younger and smaller trees and shrubs.
patulous-ose	open, spreading.
undernourishment	condition in which a person's daily caloric intake is insufficient to meet metabolic needs
nascent rna	The initial transcripts of RNA, before any modification or processing.
sequence tagged site	A short DNA sequence with a known chromosomal location that occurs once within the human genome.
citric acid cycle	Another term for the Krebs Cycle.
chromosomes	Structures in the nucleus
toll-like receptor family	Important family of mammalian pattern recognition receptors abundant on macrophages, neutrophils and the epithelial cells of the gut
goldman equation	An equation that describes membrane potential in terms of the concentrations of and membrane permeabilities to more than one ion species.
geometric isomers	Compounds that have the same molecular formula but differ in the spatial arrangements of their atoms.
darwinian fitness	A measure of the relative contribution of an individual to the gene pool of the next generation.
muscular system	The muscular system is the biological system of animals that allows them to move internally and externally.
coupled reactions	In cells, the linking of endergonic (energy-requiring) reactions to exergonic (energy-releasing) reactions that provide enough energy to drive the endergonic reactions forward.
randomized	the process of assigning patients to different forms of treatment in a research study in a random manner
turgid	Very firm
phylogenetic profiling	A method for predicting the function of a protein that is based on the correlation of protein inheritance across different species
inaequalis	unequal.
fatiscent	with cracks, crevices or openings.
heterokaryon	Cell possessing two nuclei derived from different cells through cell fusion.
pillow lava	Lava extruded beneath water characterised by pillow-type shapes.
vtn	Vaccine Trials Network
selective pressure	An environmental factor that favors the survival and reproduction of those genetic variants within a population that are better adapted to the environment.
prototype	a primitive form to which later forms can be traced.
bacterium pl. bacteria	A prokaryotic microorganism in Domain Bacteria.
tera-	A prefix indicating 10 to the power of 12; a trillion.
complementary	A property of DNA whereby each nitrogenous base pairs with another particular base (A with T and G with C); two complementary single strands have nucleotide sequences that enable their bases to pair up; see Figure B-8.
globus pallidus	One of the components of the basal ganglia
refugia	Locations in which species have persisted while becoming extinct elsewhere.
mdr protein	see multidrug resistance protein
interleukin-1	A cytokine that mediates various inflammatory activities
tunica intima	the inner layer of the silk glands: an inner lining or membrane.
plicate	plaited; folded like a fan.
alk	Alkaline.
microgram	one-millionth of a gram: written as `g'.
piezoelectric	Becoming electrically polarised when subject to the mechanical stress; quartz for example produces an electric charge when squeezed.
neuropsychiatrist	A physician who treats people with psychiatric symptoms that are caused by a brain disorder
paleoanthropology	The study of human origins and evolution.
sub-servate	denticulate.
central dogma	The organizing principle of molecular biology: genetic information flows from DNA to RNA to protein.
refined	refers to breads and cereals in which the fibrous bran and germ are removed from the grain by machinery
ectoproct	A sessile, coloniallophophorate commonly called a bryozoan.
absorption spectrum	The range of a pigment's ability to absorb various wavelengths of light.
implant	See implantation.
maximum parsimony	A principle that states that when considering multiple explanations for an observation, one should first investigate the simplest explanation that is consistent with the facts.
bovine spongiform encephalopathy	A form of transmissible spongiform encephalopathy (TSE) that affects cattle.
discopodous	/də-SKAWP-pə-dəs, dis-/ adj
metallic bonding	"electron sea" model, in which outermost (valence) electrons are shared among all the atoms in the substance
extrorse -um	toward the outside.
contrasting	appearing in sharp relief or contrast; as one color or marking against another.
denaturation	A change in the tertiary (three-dimensional) structure of an intact protein that renders the protein nonfunctional
aqueous	Pertaining to water, as for example, in an aqueous solution.
clathrate	latticed or lattice-like in appearance.
aggregated	crowded together as closely as possible.
suicide inhibitor	A relatively inert molecule that is transformed by an enzyme, at its active site, into a reactive substance that irreversibly inactivates the enzyme.
secondary consumer	A member of the trophic level of an ecosystem consisting of carnivores that eat herbivores.
angstrom	A unit of measure used to measure inter-atomic distances within molecules equal to 10-10 meter.
peptidoglycan	A major component of bacterial cell walls; generally consists of parallel heteropolysaccharides cross-linked by short peptides.
ordure	excrement; usually applied to such as is foul or offensive.
nucleotide	A nucleoside phosphorylated at one of its pentose hydroxyl groups.
contingency chi-square	A chi-square test performed for the comparison of two sets of data.
partial pressure	A measure of the concentration of one gas in a mixture of gasesThe pressure exerted by a particular gas in a mixture of gases
fairy ring	mushrooms arising at the periphery of a radially spreading underground mycelium; common in grasslands, and around conifers.
transgenic	Describing an organism that contains transfected DNA in the germ line.
basal	Situated near the base
perennial	A plant which continues to grow after it has reproduced, usually meaning that it lives for several years.
companion cells	Specialized cells in the
map unit	see genetic map distance
temperate grassland	A terrestrial biome dominated by grasses and forbs.
sinuate	cut into sinuses; applied to lines and margins with an in and out curve.
cyclin	A
dorsal	/DORE-səl/ adj
insight learning	Modification of an organism’s behavior brought about by combining information received from the environment in new ways to solve problems
dual action drug	A dual action drug is a compound which combines two desired different pharmacological actions at a similarly efficacious dose.
ribonucleic acid	A single stranded nucleic acid containing ribose and using uracil in place of thymine
isomer	One of several organic compounds with the same molecular formula but different structures and therefore different properties
antioxidant	A molecule that is capable of reacting with free radicals and neutralizing them.
lysosome	Membrane-bounded organelle in eucaryotic cells containing digestive enzymes, which are typically most active at the acid pH found in the lumen of lysosomes.
argentate	shining, silvery white.
cation	a positively charged ion.
yeast	Common term for several families of unicellular fungi
monophyletic	Term applied to a group of organisms which includes the most recent common ancestor of all of its members and all of the descendants of that most recent common ancestor
book lungs	Lungs within which sheets of gas-exchange tissue alternate with sheetlike air spaces, like pages of a book slightly separated by air
fuseo-rufous	red-brown, approaching liver brown.
conico-acuminate	in the form of a long, pointed cone.
taphonomy	n
metabolism	The totality of an organism's chemical reactions, consisting of catabolic and anabolic pathways.
cosmid	A DNA molecule with cos ends from lambda-bacteriophage that can be packaged in vitro into a virus for infection purposes .
denitrification	The process by which certain bacteria living in poorly aerated soils break down nitrates, using the oxygen for their own respiration and releasing nitrogen back into the atmosphere.
epitope	A portion of an antigen recognized by an antibody binding site
food chain	The pathway along which food is transferred from trophic level to trophic level, beginning with producers
scutel	= scutellum: q.v.
proton-motive force	Driving force that moves protons across a membrane as a result of an electrochemical proton gradient.
polyphyletic	Term applied to a group of organisms which does not include the most recent common ancestor of those organisms; the ancestor does not possess the character shared by members of the group
elastic	a part which has a degree of flexibility throughout.
molecular mass	The sum of the masses of all the atoms in a molecule; sometimes called molecular weight.
biocompatible	A material that is biologically compatible with the body
standard deviation	The square root of the variance.
primary structure	A description of the covalent backbone of a polymer (macromolecule), including the sequence of monomeric subunits and any interchain and intrachain covalent bonds.
white rust	disease of crucifers caused by Albuginaceae (Peronosporales: Oomycota).
multivesicular body	A lysosomal structure containing inner vesicles.
substrate	The specific compound acted upon by an enzyme.
oxygen debt	The extra oxygen (above the normal resting level) consumed in the recovery period after strenuous physical exertion.
thymine	One of the four nitrogenous bases found in DNA; pairs with the base adenine; often abbreviated as the letter "T"; see Figure B-3.
endosymbiosis	A relationship between two different organisms in which one (the endosymbiont) lives within the tissues or cell of the other, benefiting one or both
community ecology	The study of how resource availability influences ecosystem characteristics, including the number and types of species present.
hill reaction	The evolution of oxygen and the photoreduction of an artificial electron acceptor by a chloroplast preparation in the absence of carbon dioxide.
coadaptation	The action of selection in producing adaptive combinations of alleles at two or more different gene loci.
apothecium	Open ascoma of fungi in the phylum Ascomycota.
reduction potential	Inherent tendency of a compound to act as an electron donor or an electron acceptor
vascular tissue	In plants, one of the three main types of tissue, this tissue consists of tubes and associated cells which transport water and nutrients throughout the plant.
violaceous	violet colored: a mixture of blue and red [violet carmine].
dna polymerase	Enzyme that synthesizes DNA by joining nucleotides together using a DNA template as a guide.
low-density lipoproteins	Molecules made of lipids and proteins that carry cholesterol and fat through the bloodstream.
triacylglycerol	An ester of glycerol with three molecules of fatty acid; also called a triglyceride or neutral fat.
capsid	The protein coat of a virion or virus particle.
stasis	A period of equilibrium during which change appears to be absent, for example, in the concept of punctuated equilibrium
basalt	Highly mafic igneous volcanic rock, typically fine-grained and dark in color; rough volcanic equivalent of gabbro.
hominid	A member of the family Hominidae, which includes humans, whose earliest fossils can now be dated to about 4 million years ago (genus Australopithecus)
adhesion	The tendency of unlike substances to stick together
fibrinogen	A protein present in blood plasma that causes blood clots when the stress response is activated.
dioecious	/die-EE-shəs/ adj
tuberculin test	A test for previous infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
age structure	The relative number of individuals of each age in a population.
restoration ecology	The scientific study of repairing disturbed ecosystems through human intervention; an attempt to speed successional processes to reach a desired climax community.
exposure	amount of a substance encountered, generally in reference to human contact with a toxic substance or a disease-causing organism
chemostat	A continuous culture device controlled by the concentration of limiting nutrient and dilution rate.
mortality rate	Proportion of individuals that die in a specific age class
glaucus	shining sea-green: whitish blue inclining to gray lavender.
fatty acid	A long-chain hydrocarbon containing a carboxyl group at one end
hypocrateriform	salver-shaped.
lamarckism	The theory that evolution is caused by inheritance of character changes acquired during the life of an individual due to its behavior or to environmental influences.
exergonic reaction	A chemical reaction that proceeds with the release of free energy (that is, for which ΔG is negative).
kinetics	The study of the rate of change.
intermolecular attractive force	attraction between two molecules resulting from the interactions of their electron clouds and nuclei
cancer	A malignant, invasive cellular tumor that has the capability of spreading throughout the body or body parts.
osmoregulation	Adaptations to control the water balance in organisms living in hypertonic, hypotonic, or terrestrial environments.
drug therapy	The use of a chemical compound or molecule to treat a disease
frequency distribution	Graphical way of representing values
homologous	Describes organs or molecules that are similar because of their common evolutionary origin
binomial nomenclature	System of having two names, genus and specific epithet, for each organism.
coxa -ae	the basal segment of the leg, by means of which it is articulated to the body.
protein	class of biochemical compounds constructed from amino acids
articulation	the point or place where two parts or segments are joined: also applied to an individual joint or segment.
extinction	When all the members of a clade or taxon die, the group is said to be extinct.
aerobic respiration	chemical process by which energy is released from food using oxygen.
tumor	A mass of cells, generally derived from a single cell, that is not controlled by normal regulators of cell growth.
sex ratio	The relative proportions of males and females in a population.
cosanguine	Related by a common ancestor.
shingles	Most people have been infected with at least one of these types of herpes virus.
dissociation curve	A chart showing the relative amounts of oxygen bound to hemoglobin when the pigment is exposed to solutions varying in their partial pressure of dissolved oxygen, pH, or other characteristics.
capping	Covalent modification involving the addition of a modified guanidine group in a 5'-5" linkage
motif	In proteins, a structural unit exhibiting a particular three-dimensional architecture that is found in a variety of proteins and usually is associated with a particular function
translocase	(1) An enzyme that catalyzes membrane transport
trehalose	a crystalline sugar, C12H22O11, characteristically found in fungi.
deuterium	An isotope of hydrogen containing one proton and one neutron, giving it twice the mass of an ordinary hydrogen atom.
catalyst	Substance that can lower the activation energy of a reaction, thus increasing its rate.
glycosidic bonds	Bonds between a sugar and another molecule (typically an alcohol, purine, pyrimidine, or sugar) through an intervening oxygen or nitrogen atom; the bonds are classified as O-glycosidic or N-glycosidic, respectively.
flavoprotein	An enzyme containing a flavin nucleotide as a tightly bound prosthetic group.
hdac inhibitors	Abbreviation for histone deacetylase inhibitors.
catalyst	A substance that increases the rate of a chemical reaction without undergoing a permanent change in its structure
arrestins	Multifunctional adaptor proteins that are important in regulating desensitization and signalling by seven-transmembrane receptors and other transmembrane receptors.
humus	Decomposing organic material found in topsoil.
atcc	American Type Culture Collection.
bomb calorimeter	A device used to measure the energy content of organic materials.
end product	substance formed as a result of an enzyme acting on its substrate.
neuronal intranuclear inclusions	Another term for neuronal inclusions.
learning	A behavioral change resulting from experience.
nitrogen-fixing bacteria	bacteria that remove nitrogen from the air and convert it to ammonia
antimetabolite**	An antimetabolite is a structural analog of an intermediate (substrate or coenzyme) in a physiologically occurring metabolic pathway that acts by replacing the natural substrate thus blocking or diverting the biosynthesis of physiologically important substances.
gram molecular weight	The weight in grams of a compound that is numerically equal to its molecular weight; the weight of 1 mole.
primary succession	A type of ecological succession that occurs in a virtually lifeless area, where there were originally no organisms and where soil has not yet formed.
photon	Elementary particle of light and other electromagnetic radiation.
alkyl group	General term for a group of covalently linked carbon and hydrogen atoms such as methyl (–CH3) or ethyl (–CH2CH3) groups
monomer	(from mono meaning "one" and meros meaning "unit")
grade	A level of phenotypic organization or adaptation reached by one or more species
hplc	see high-performance liquid chromatography
glycosidic bond	The covalent linkage between two monosaccharide residues formed by a condensation reaction in which one carbon, usually carbon #1, of one sugar reacts with a hydroxyl group on a second sugar with the loss of a water molecule
egg-polarity gene	Determines the major axes of development in an early fruit fly embryo
calcium	KAL-see-uhm/ Silver-white metallic element
lactose	A disaccharide made from glucose and galactose
glycogenolysis	Breakdown of glycogen to glucose 6-phosphate; stimulated by a rise in cAMP following epinephrine stimulation of cells and, in muscle, by a rise in Ca2+ following neuronal stimulation
tertiary structure	In proteins, the three dimensional folding of the protein due to hydrophobic and hydrophilic interactions with water
oxidation	Loss of electrons from an atom, as occurs during the addition of oxygen to a molecule or when a hydrogen is removed
chalybeate	steely in appearance.
character	a quality of form, color or structure.
covariance	A measure of how much two variables change together.
nonmetals	elements with varied appearances that do not conduct electricity or heat well
succineous	resembling amber in color or appearance.
etiology	The study of causes or origins of a disease.
literate	ornamented with characters like letters.
phagemid	A phage-plasmid vector able to replicate as single- or double-stranded DNA.
produced	drawn out; prolonged; extended from.
anaerobe	An organism that lives without oxygen
autoradiography	A photographic image produced exposing photographic film to a radiolabeled molecule (e.g
leucocyte	see white blood cell
glycosyltransferase	Glycosyltransferases produce glycosidic bonds by transferring a glycosyl group  any group formed by detaching the glycosidic hydroxyl group from the cyclic form of a monosaccharide, oligosaccharide or derivatives.
chromosome condensation	Process by which a chromosome becomes packed up into a more compact structure prior to M phase of the cell cycle.
calorie	KAL-er-ee/ The amount of heat needed to raise one gram of water from 14.5˚ to 15.5˚C at a pressure of one atmosphere.
carcinoma	A malignant tumor derived from epithelial cells.
galvanic cell	device that converts the energy released in a spontaneous chemical reaction into electrical energy
propulsatory	that which drives onward or forward.
chemostat	Continuous culture device usually controlled by the concentration of limiting nutrient and dilution rate.
cassette	A gene fragment that can be cloned into a site to confer some property
operationalize	The process of converting concepts into specific observable behaviors that a researcher can measure.
protein complementarity	combining foods that complement essential amino acid content so that the total diet provides a complete supply of amino acids
cell wall	A tough outer coating found in many plant, fungal, and bacterial cells that accounts for their ability to withstand mechanical stress or abrupt changes in osmotic pressure
rod	See bacillus.
cephalon	the head.
nf-kb	Abbreviation for NF-kappa B.
amphotropic virus	A virus that infects a wide range of mammalian host cell types.
linking number	The net number of times one polynucleotide chain crosses over another polynucleotide chain
vein	A macroscopic blood vessel that carries blood toward the heart.
virion	An infectious virus particle.
score	To determine the presence or absence of a phenotype by testing for growth under different conditions (e.g., plus and minus an auxotrophic supplement or permissive and nonpermissive conditions)
acanthus	a spine, spur or prickle.
oogenesis	formation and maturation of the egg.
nad	Nicotinamide adenosine dinucleotide; an electron carrier involved in cellular metabolism
pulmocutaneous circuit	The route of circulation that directs blood to the skin and lungs.
chromosomes	Tiny thread-like structures inside each cell
restriction enzyme	Any enzyme that recognizes and cleaves a specific short sequence, the restriction site, in double-stranded DNA molecules
symptoms	Changes in the body or its functions, experienced by the patient and indicative of disease.
pinocytosis	The active taking in of bulk fluids by a cell using endocytosis
protein complex	a group of two or more associated proteins that function together to perform a specific task or make a certain structure.
molar	A unit of measure of chemical concentration; specifically, the molar concentration is the number of moles dissolved in a liter of solution.
adp	Abbreviation for adenosine diphosphate.
isolating barrier	A genetically determined difference between populations that restricts or prevents gene flow between them
photon	The ultimate unit (a quantum) of light energy.
scrotal circumference	Simple maximal circumference measured around the central portion of the paired testes.
z dna	An alternative, left-handed form of the double helix.
inbreeding	Mating of related animals resulting in a non-zero probability that alleles at a particular locus are identical by descent
marsupial	n
inflammation	Characteristic reaction to foreign particles and noxious stimuli, resulting in redness, swelling, heat, and pain.
chondrichthyan	Member of the class Chondrichthyes, vertebrates with skeletons made mostly of cartilage, such as sharks and rays.
storage battery	battery that is capable of storing electrical energy
emesis	vomiting (sometimes caused by EMETICS).
monotrichous	Having a single polar flagellum.
gastrodermis	In cnidarians, the endodermis which lines the gut cavity
tumorigenesis	The mechanism of tumor formation.
leucine zipper	Common structural motif in some dimeric eukaryotic transcription factors characterized by a C-terminal coiled-coil dimerization domain and N-terminal DNA-binding domain
glycogen	A large, complex carbohydrate molecule stored in the liver and muscles
munite -us	armed; provided with an armature.
desmosome	A type of intercellular junction in animal cells that functions as an anchor.
ionic bond	A bond between two atoms involving a complete transfer of electrons
retroarcuate	curved backwards.
associative symbiosis	Close but relatively casual interaction between two dissimilar organisms or biological systems
perception	The interpretation of sensations by the brain
apoptosis	Programmed cell death.
in vitro	Reactions that take place outside of the cell; in a test tube.
repressible enzyme	In bacteria, an enzyme whose synthesis is inhibited when its reaction product is readily available to the cell.
substrate-level phosphorylation	Synthesis of high-energy phosphate bonds through reaction of inorganic phosphate with an activated (usually) organic substrate.
surface-to-volume ratio	The ratio of the total area of the outer surface of a three-dimensional object over the volume of that object.
wassermann test	A complement fixation test used to diagnose syphilis.
expected number	Prediction of the number of observations occurring for an event based on the probability of the event given the hypothesis being tested and the total number of observations in the sample.
cell fate	In developmental biology, describes what a particular cell at a given stage of development will normally give rise to.
nanometer	n
absorption spectrum	The amount of light taken up by a series of pigments across a particular range of wavelengths
reactive oxygen species	A highly reactive free radical that can result from excessive levels of iron in the body.
cofactor	A small molecule, which may be organic (that is, a coenzyme) or inorganic (that is, a metal ion), required by an enzyme in order to function.
adherence	Refers to the ability of bacteria adhea r (stick) to host surfaces.
polar	In the electrical sense, describes a structure (for example, a chemical bond, chemical group, or molecule) with positive charge concentrated toward one end and negative charge toward the other as a result of an uneven distribution of electrons
oligonucleotide	A polynucleotide containing a small number of nucleotides
inheritance	Genetic characters transmitted from one generation to the next.
infra-ocular	situated within the eye, actually or apparently.
f factor	An episomal genetic element that enables a bacterium to transfer extrachromosomal DNA to a second bacterium.
covariance	Measure quantifying the degree to which two characteristics vary together.
fossil	Any evidence of past life, including remains, traces, imprints as well as life history artifacts
target	Free nucleic acid sample/protein/etc
dimeric	/die-MARE-ick/ adj
transferase	An enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of a molecular group from one molecule to another.
association study	Study that compares DNA samples from populations of individuals with and without a specific clinical trait
geologic record	The division of Earths history into time periods, grouped into three eras: Archaean, Proterozoic, and Phanerozoic, and further subdivided into eras and epochs.
carbon dioxide	waste product of respiration
bioinformatics	Computational or algorithmic approaches to the analysis and integration of genomic, proteomic, or chemical data residing in databases
organic chemistry	The study of carbon compounds (organic compounds).
meiosis	A two-stage type of cell division in sexually reproducing organisms that results in cells with half the chromosome number of the original cell.
atypic -ical	off type; not of the usual form.
autochthonous flora	see oligotrophs.
chromatography	Biochemical technique in which a mixture of substances is separated by charge, size, or some other property by allowing it to partition between a moving phase and a stationary phase
biramous	Arthropod appendages that are biramous have two branches, an outer branch and an inner branch
calorie	The amount of heat necessary to raise the temperature of 1 gram of water by 1 degree centigrade at a pressure of 1 atmosphere.
biotrophic	Nutritional relationship between two organisms in which one or both must associate with the other to obtain nutrients and grow.
assimilation	The ability to use a carbon or nitrogen source for growth in the presence of oxygen.
protein arrays	Arrays consisting of proteins themselves or of probes used for capturing proteins.
parasitism	Symbiotic relationship in which the parasite benefits at the expense of the host
aestival	occurring in summer.
replicative transposition	The insertion of a transposable element at a new location without loss from the original location.
fluid-feeder	An animal that lives by sucking nutrient-rich fluids from another living organism.
plus end	The end of a microtubule or actin filament at which addition of monomers occurs most readily; the “fast-growing” end of a microtubule or actin filament
diatomite	Diatomite, or diatomaceous earth, is a siliceous sedimaentary rock formed from the accumulations of diatoms or other nanoplankton.
trypsin	A proteolytic enzyme that cleaves (cuts) peptide chains next to the basic amino acids arginine and Iysine.
uhdrs	The Unified Huntington's Disease Rating Scale, used to provide uniform assessment of the clinical features and progression of HD.
affinity chromatography	A column chromatographic technique that employs attached functional groups that have a specific affinity for sites on particular proteins.
control rods	rods composed primarily of an excellent neutron absorber such as cadmium or boron that can be positioned in a nuclear reactor to absorb fewer or more neutrons, thereby regulating the rate of fission
substrate	a molecule that binds to the active site of an enzyme target and is chemically modified by the enzyme target to produce a new chemical molecule (product).
path integration	The ability to remember the distances and directions traveled, to sum them, and then to calculate their return path.
nsf	Protein with ATPase activity that disassembles a complex of a v-SNARE and a t-SNARE.
superne	denotes all those parts belonging to the upper surface.
bracket fungi	corky or woody, often perennial, basidiomata of the polypores (Aphyllophorales: Basidiomycetes)
ionophore	A compound which can cause the leakage of ions across membranes.
sperm motility	The proportion of sperm swimming, or other measures of sperm movement.
messenger rna	The template RNA carrying the message for protein synthesis.
transglutaminase	An enzyme that helps produce huntingtin protein aggregates.
deletion	(1) A deficiency in a chromosome resulting from the loss of a fragment through breakage
pleiomorphic	Having the ability to change shape.
polymer	a large molecule constructed from many smaller identical units
brassy	yellow, with the lustre of metallic brass.
cofactor	non-protein component(s) needed by an enzyme to be functional; some cofactors are metal ions, others are coenzymes (q.v.).
pillared eye	in Ephemerids, that type which is placed on a cylindrical stalk or process: = turbinate eye.
residual volume	The amount of air that remains in the lungs after forcefully exhaling.
anti-metabolite	An analogue of the end-product of a metabolic pathway that causes feedback inhibition or repression, but cannot replace the genuine product; used for selecting feedback-deficient mutants.
glume	A leaf- or bract-like structure; specifically one of the two bracts at the base of the spikelet in grass flowers.
trochophore larvae	a larval stage shared by annelids and mollusks
enteric bacteria	A large group of gram-negative rod-shaped Bacteria characterized by a facultatively aerobic metabolism
kinase	An enzyme that transfers the terminal (γ) phosphate group from ATP to a substrate
water vapor	Water in the gaseous state.
primary producer	An organism that uses light to synthesize new organic material from carbon dioxide.
polygenic disorders	Genetic disorders resulting from the combined action of
rough endoplasmic reticulum	A network of membranous sacs connected to the nuclear envelope that is covered with ribosomes
pappas	a fine down.
obligate	An adjective referring to an environmental factor (for example, oxygen) which is always required for growth
holliday structure	Intermediate structure in recombination between homologous chromosomes
punnett square	A diagram used in the study of inheritance to show the results of random fertilization.
chronospecies	KROH-no-SPEE-seez/ A fossil form assigned a distinct binomial name because it occurred at a different time from other, similar forms
interval timer	A biological clock that times an interval shorter than a day but appears to be noncyclic, having to be restarted each time it operates, like a kitchen timer or an hourglass
superantigen	An antigen that activates a large percentage of T-lymphocytes.
hydrogen ion pump	A protein that uses the energy from electrons being carried along an electron transport system to pump hydrogen ions from one side of a cell membrane to another
enantiomorphs	Isomers that are mirror images of one another.
chemical reaction	process whereby reactants are transformed into products
pleiotropy	Influence of a single gene on more than one different traits.
primary structure	In a polymer, the sequence of monomers and the covalent bonds
carbohydrates	compounds containing carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, the last two elements in the same 2:1 atomic ratio as found in water
spinulate -ose	set with little spines or spinules.
nucleoplasm	The portion of a cell's contents enclosed by the nuclear membrane; ' also called the nuclear matrix.
ram ventilation	A type of gill ventilation observed in certain types of fish (e.g., tunas) in which the fish holds its mouth open as it swims forward, thereby using its swimming motions to drive water over its gills.
menarche	First menstruation.
haploid	Having a single set of genetic information; describing a cell with one chromosome of each type.
nonpolar	Referring to a molecule or structure that lacks any net electric charge or asymmetric distribution of positive and negative charges
appendix	A small, fingerlike extension of the vertebrate cecum; contains a mass of white blood cells that contribute to immunity
ketose	A simple monosaccharide in which the carbonyl group is a ketone.
streptavidin	A tetrameric biotin-binding protein capable of binding four molecules of biotin per molecule
urceolate	pitcher-shaped; swelling in the middle.
heritable	Capable of being inherited.
moiety	A component part of a complex molecule.
respiration	process by which humans and animals exchange the oxygen necessary for metabolism with the carbon dioxide produced by it
campodactyly	A dominant trait in which a muscle is improperly attached to bones in the little finger, causing the finger to be permanently bent
nicotinamide	A drug that may help improve cellular energy production by acting as a precursor of NAD
relative quantification	A type of real-time PCR data analysis used to calculate differences in a target concentration across different samples
channel protein	Membrane transport protein that forms an aqueous pore in the membrane through which a specific solute, usually an ion, can pass.
protofibrils	Intermediate fibrils formed early in the protein aggregation process.
transition state	The activated state in which a molecule is best suited to undergoing a chemical reaction.
protein	polyamides (polypeptides) built from a long chain of amino acids
morphogenesis	Developmental changes in the inner structure and outer form of an organism.
albidus	white with dusky tinge.
giberrellin	A plant hormone that regulates growth.
basilar cross-vein	Odonata; crosses the basilar space.
cytosol	Contents of the main compartment of the cytoplasm, excluding membrane-bounded organelles such as endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria
hydrophobic	"water fearing"
aneuploidy	A chromosomal aberration in which one or more chromosomes are present in extra copies or are deficient in number.
ampholyte	An amphoteric molecule or substance, such as amino acid or protein
axil	The angle formed between a leaf stalk and the stem to which it is attached
homozygous	Having two identical alleles for a given gene.
discoid	/DISK-oid/ adj
nasolabial folds	Deep folds which run from the side of the nose to the corner of the mouth.
sensitive period	A limited phase in an individual animal's development when learning of particular behaviors can take place
disjunctus	separated; standing apart.
ectognathus	see ectotrophous.
big bang theory	The concept that the universe was born in a gigantic explosion about 10 to 20 billion years ago.
semi-	half.
zoönite or zoönule	= zonite.
in vitro packaging	Synthesis of infective phage particles from a preparation of phage capsid proteins and a concatamer of phage DNA molecules
tfc	See total functional capacity.
dimer	A molecule that is made of two monomers bound together.
protein kinase c	Ca2+-dependent protein kinase that, when activated by diacylglycerol and an increase in the concentration of Ca2+, phosphorylates target proteins on specific serine and threonine residues.
growth hormone	A hormone produced and secreted by the anterior pituitary that has both direct (nontropic) effects and tropic effects on a wide variety of tissues.
fixed action pattern	A sequence of behavioral acts that is essentially unchangeable and usually carried to completion once initiated
biarcuate	twice curved.
navigation	The act of moving on a particular course or toward a specific destination using sensory cues to determine direction and position.
arboreal	Living predominantly in trees.
chlorophyll	n
solarization	Method to control pathogens and weeds where moistened soil in hot climates is covered with transparent polyethylene plastic sheets, thereby trapping incoming radiation.
critical temperature	(1) In the study of poikilotherms, a body temperature (high or low) at which animals have little or no ability to increase their rate of O2 consumption above their resting rate—making them incapable of much physical activity
bilineate -us	with two lines.
urine	The fluid excreted by a kidney.
pupil	the central mark of an ocellate spot.
aequilate-us	of equal breadth throughout.
single covalent bond	a bond formed when only one pair of shared electrons forms the linkage between atoms
deletion	An aberration in which a section of DNA or chromosome has been lost.
aspersus	rugged, with distinct elevated dots.
vitamin a	A lipid-soluble vitamin with antioxidant properties that may also play an important role in learning and memory.
3' end	End of the polynucleotide chain in which an OH group is attached to the 3'-carbon atom of the nucleotide.
integer	entire: applied to a margin without incisions.
membrane	The lipid bilayer plus associated proteins that encloses all cells and, in eucaryotic cells, many organelles as well.
gamma wave	The highest frequency and most important type of brain wave; involved in higher mental acuity such as perception and consciousness.
high-energy bond	Covalent bond whose hydrolysis releases an unusually large amount of free energy under the conditions existing in a cell
epinephrine	see adrenaline
tumor	A growth consisting of differentiated cancer cells.
catalyze	KAT-uh-lize/ To a speed chemical reaction with a catalyst.
topography	n
essential fatty acids	A fatty acid is a compound derived from the breakdown of fats
catalysis	kuh-TAL-uh-sus/ The speeding of a chemical reaction by a catalyst.
monoecious	when both sexual elements or glands exist in one individual.
aminotransferases	Enzymes that catalyze the transfer of amino groups from α-amino to α-keto acids; also called transaminases.
nucleic acids	Polymers of the ribonucleotides or deoxyribonucleotides.
anthophyte	A flowering plant, or any of its closest relatives, such as the Bennettitales, Gnetales, or Pentoxylales.
oxidation-reduction reaction	A coupled pair of reactions, in which one compound becomes oxidized, while another becomes reduced and takes up the electrons released in the oxidation reaction.
haplotype	A sequential set of genetic markers that are present on the same chromosome. 
closed circulatory system	A circulatory system in which the blood is enclosed within blood vessels throughout and is therefore distinct from the interstitial fluids
punctiformis	shaped like a point or dot.
density-gradient centrifugation	The separation, by centrifugation, of molecules according to their density, in a gradient varying in solute concentration.
heme	Cyclic organic molecule containing an iron atom that carries oxygen in hemoglobin and carries an electron in cytochromes
atomic number	The number of protons in the nucleus of an atom, unique for each element and designated by a subscript to the left of the elemental symbol.
sex-influenced characteristic	Encoded by autosomal genes that are more readily expressed in one sex
proprotein	A protein that is made in an active form, so that it requires processing to become functional.
kilocalorie	1,000 calories of hear energy; amount needed to raise the temperature of 1 kilogram of water by 1 degree Celsius
subtractive hybridization	A process that eliminates cDNAs shared by two libraries by hybridization
marker	An identifiable physical location on a 
energy degradation	See degradation of energy.
miraxion	A novel compound that may function as a neuroprotectant by inhibiting harmful enzymes known as phospholipases and stabilizing the phospholipid components of cell membranes and mitochondria.
homothallism	A process occurring in some yeasts and other fungal strains where haploid spores formed during meiosis undergo self-diploidization due to the switching of mating type by some of the progeny of the spore.
steady state	condition in which a dynamic system is in balance so that no net change occurs in the concentration of the major species involved
high-energy bond	A chemical bond that releases a large amount of free energy when it is hydrolyzed.
icosahedron	A regular geometric polyhedron with 20 equilateral trangular faces and 12 corners
chronosequence	Predictable change of vegetation over time.
carnitine	A vital component of mitochondrial function that shuttles molecules derived from fatty acids into the mitochondria for conversion into ATP.
aerosols	particles, both liquid and solid, that remain suspended in the air rather than settling out
constitutive	Referring to cellular production of a molecule at a constant rate, which is not regulated by internal or external stimuli.
fasciate	banded transversely.
marker	Gene used to identify a segment of DNA.
neutron	an electrically neutral particle found in the nucleus of an atom
chemical equilibrium	In a reversible chemical reaction, the point at which the rate of the forward reaction equals the rate of the reverse reaction.
nucleoside diphosphate sugar	A coenzymelike carrier of a sugar molecule, functioning in the enzymatic synthesis of polysaccharides and sugar derivatives.
matrix	the formative substance from which cells and other structures are derived.
habitat fragmentation	Occurs when continuous areas of habitat become disconnected by natural or human causes (e.g., building roads through a forest).
tautomer	One of a set of possible alternative structures.
penal claspers	in Proctytripidae
metasternal wing	in some aquatic Coleoptera a leaf-like expansion above the coxal plates.
endometrium	The inner lining of the uterus, which is richly supplied with blood vessels.
cucullate	hooded; somewhat hood-shaped.
chelate	A molecule that contains more than one binding site and frequently binds to another molecule through more than one binding site at the same time.
pyruvate	This product of glycolysis is used and synthesized by many metabolic pathways
neurofilament	Type of intermediate filament found in nerve cells.
leaving group	A group that departs during a substitution reaction.
nanometres	Some filoviruses have a total length of up to 1400 nm; their diameters are only about 80 nm.
obscure	not readily seen: not well defined.
planktonic	Living in open water.
reducing agent	The electron donor in an oxidation-reduction reaction.
virtual library	An combinatorial chemical library that is built in silico with the goal of evaluating possible structures.
ballismus	uncontrolled, violent movements
pyogenic	Pus-forming; causing abscesses.
complementary	Referring to two nucleic acid sequences or strands that can form a perfect base-paired double helix with each other; also describing regions on two interacting molecules (e.g., an enzyme and its substrate) that fit together in a lock-and-key fashion.
water moulds	members of the Order Saprolegniales (Oomycetes).
ramify	to branch out in every direction.
glycolysis	Metabolic pathway whereby sugars are degraded anaerobically to lactate or pyruvate in the cytosol with the production of ATP; also called Embden-Meyerhof pathway
alcohol	A molecule with a hydroxyl group attached to a carbon atom.
coronet	a small crown or corona.
acetoclastis	The process of splitting acetate into methane and carbon dioxide by some methanogens.
entropy	A measure of the degree of disorder or randomness in a system; the higher the entropy, the greater the disorder.
graft versus host reaction	An attack against a patient's body cells by lymphocytes received in a bone marrow transplant.
coprophilic	KAWP-ruh-FILL-ik/ Attracted to excrement.
longitudinal veins	are those that extend lengthwise through the wing either directly from base or as branches of one that does start there: they are named or numbered, and differently in the different orders.
supercoil	Highly twisted form of circular DNA.
osmoticum	See osmotic effector.
genetic algorithm	An algorithm for optimizing a property based on an evolutionary mechanism that uses replication, deletion, and mutation processes carried out over many generations.
heart rot	decay of the inner wood of trees, caused by basidiomycetes.
parse	sparse or sparsely.
ecdysis	The process of shedding the outer body covering
macconkey plates	MacConkey medium contains pH indicators that can be used to differentiate colonies that can ferment a sugar from colonies unable to ferment a sugar
enzyme	A biomolecule, either protein or RNA, that catalyzes a specific chemical reaction
amino acid	An organic compound containing at least one amino group and one carboxyl group
resting membrane potential	The membrane potential in equilibrium conditions in which there is no net flow of ions across the plasma membrane.
glycoconjugate	A complex carbohydrate attached to a lipid, peptide, or protein.
thermocline	Zone of water in a stratified lake in which temperature and oxygen concentration drop precipitously with depth.
monovalent	Possessing a single charge or valency.
microminerals	quantities of Fe, Cu, and Zn that the body requires in lesser amounts
volant	flying or capable of flight.
cis	Arrangement of two noncarbon atoms, each bound to one of the carbons in a carboncarbon double bond, where the two noncarbon atoms are on the same side relative to the double bond.
nicotine adenine dinucleotide phosphate	see NADP+
chlorine	KLORE-een/ Chemical element (atomic weight 35.453, atomic number 17)
population genetics	The study of how populations change genetically over time.
concavo-convex	hollowed out or concave on one surface, rounded or convex on the other; like a small segment of a hollow sphere.
dominant species	The most abundant species in a community, exerting a strong influence over the occurrence and distribution of other species.
p450 enzymes	A set of inducible enzymes that play roles in in the detoxification of foreign compounds.
sugar	any of several small carbohydrates, such as glucose, which are "sweet" to the taste.
redox balance	A state in which a cell has the capability to remove electrons from a compound that undergoes reversible reduction and oxidation as fast as electrons are added to the compound.
ecosystem ecology	The study of energy flow and the cycling of chemicals among the various biotic and abiotic factors in an ecosystem.
filopodium	Thin, spike-like protrusion with an actin filament core, generated on the leading edge of a crawling animal cell.
dolichol	n
viscosity	Internal friction in a moving fluid; a lack of intrinsic slipperiness between fluid layers that are moving at different linear velocities
pain	A subjective characterization of sensation associated with physical damage to the body
epithet	one of the words which makes up the binomial of an organism.
accession number	The unique identifier assigned to new sequence information submitted to a major database.
asymmetric carbon atom	A carbon atom that is covalently bonded to four dif ferent groups and thus may exist in two different tetrahedral configurations.
homing	A process in which transplanted cells are attracted to and travel to an injured site.
poisson distribution	A statistical test developed by Simeon Poisson
osmosis	Diffusion of water through a membrane from a region of low solute concentration to one of higher concentration.
oxidation	Removal of electrons or hydrogen atoms from a molecule.
differential centrifugation	Separation of molecules and/or organelles by sedimentation rate.
enteron	the digestive canal as a whole; a general term.
series	a group of species, genera or families, arranged to show agreement in a common character which is not of sufficient importance to warrant the next higher division.
desiccated	/DEH-sick-kate-əd/ adj
buoyant density	The density possessed by a molecule or particle when suspended in an aqueous salt or sugar solution.
in vitro fertilization	Fertilization done in the lab in a culture dish.
axonal transport	Directed transport of organelles and molecules along a nerve cell axon
retinal	The light-absorbing pigment in rods and cones of the vertebrate eye.
chimera	An organism with a mixture of genetically different cells.
ovulation	n
selenium	A mineral essential to the mammalian diet and the central element in glutathione peroxidase (GPx)
microscopic	Objects or organisms that are too small to be seen with the naked eye.
atomic weight	The total atomic mass, which is the mass in grams of one mole of the atom.
trophic structure	The different feeding relationships in an ecosystem that determine the route of energy flow and the pattern of chemical cycling.
selection	Placing organisms under conditions where the growth of those with a particular genotype will be favored.
replica plating	A technique in which an impression of a culture is taken from a master plate and transferred to a fresh plate
golgi apparatus	Membrane-bounded organelle in eucaryotic cells in which proteins and lipids transferred from the endoplasmic reticulum are modified and sorted
grooming	Body surface cleaning by use of mouth, fingers, or claws.
rhomboidal	having the form of a rhomb.
stochastic	A random process; a process determined by a random distribution of probabilities.
base	A substance that reduces the hydrogen ion concentration in a solution
laminate	formed of thin, flat layers or leaves.
autosyndesis	Pairing of homoeologous chromosomes in an allopolyploid (opposite of allosyndesis).
vitalism	The concept that the activities of living organisms cannot be explained by any underlying physical or chemical principles but arise from mystical or supernatural causes.
molecular formula	A type of molecular notation indicating only the quantity of the constituent atoms.
fasciculate	bundled; clustered as in a bundle; tufted: a surface when covered with bundles of long hair.
spermatophora	a sac or case containing spermatozoa.
fetus	A developing human from the ninth week of gestation until birth; has all the major structures of an adult
precambrian	geological era from the earliest days of the earth until 600 million years ago, at the end of which the earth's atmosphere is believed to have attained a level of oxygen capable of supporting multicellular, eukaryotic organisms.
daughter cells	The cells produced by division of a single parent cell.
kinetics	The rate at which a compound reacts
innate behavior	Behavior that has a strong genetic basis or results from genetic preprogramming.
hdl	called the "good" lipoproteins because it is more effective than LDL in transporting cholesterol through the blood
exocrine glands	those which release their secretions through ducts, e.g
specific heat	The amount of energy (in joules or calories) needed to raise the temperature of 1 g of a pure substance by 1 °C.
acetaldehyde	A natural element found in alcohol that produces damaging free radicals.
implicit memory	Motor memories or memories that deal with procedures (i.e
spontaneous generation	The hypothesis that living organisms can originate from nonliving matter.
cellulose	A glucose polysaccharide (with beta-1,4-linkage) that is the main compnent of plant cell walls.
quenching	The reduction of luminescence of a sample by the addition of a quencher.
oceanic islands	Islands that have emerged from the sea floor in the ocean.
segregration	The loss of one allele during cell division
phytoalexin	An antibiotic, produced by plants, that destroys microorganisms or inhibits their growth.
exophytic	relating to the outside of plant tissue.
riparian	Having to do with the edges of streams or rivers.
hox complex	Clusters of homologous selector genes, which help determine the body plan in animals.
alpha	typically noted as the ratio, KI'/KI
symbiosis	The living together in close association of two or more species
epiphytotic	an unnecessary coining meaning an EPIDEMIC among plants.
homeostasis	The term was classically defined by W
antibiotic	Substance, produced by a microorganism, that inhibits or kills other microorganisms; a broad-spectrum antibiotic is therapeutically effective against a wide range of bacteria.
metabolic profiling	The measurement of biochemical intermediates within a tissue in order to describe the functioning of metabolic pathways.
multiplex	This word is mainly used as 'multiplexing', thus referring to a method by which many parameters are simultaneously tested and processed.
action potential	An electrical signal that carries information from the sensory organ to the brain via the nervous system.
cell-mediated immunity	Immune reaction directed against body cells that have been infected by
order	In classification, the taxonomic category above family
inflorescence	A cluster of flowers.
peripheria	the entire outline of the body.
unsaturated fat	A type of fat found mainly in vegetable oils which, due to its chemical structure, tends to reduce levels of cholesterol and improve cell membrane function.
blueschist	Metamorphic rock formed under great pressures, but not so great temperatures.
degenerate code	The type of genetic code used by existing terrestrial organisms, for which there is more than one triplet codon for a particular amino acid but a specific codon cannot code for more than one amino acid
phenome	All biochemical, physiological, and morphological characteristics of an organism.
tempora	the temples.
ionic bond	A noncovalent bond between a positively charged ion (cation) and negatively charged ion (anion).
glycobiology	The biochemistry of glycoconjugates.
parapatric speciation	Parapatric speciation is speciation involving geographical isolation and divergence of two or more populations from a parent species
lymphatic	producing, carrying or relating to the lymph.
trophic interactions	Feeding relationships.
nnrti	Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor
inflammatory response	Local response of a tissue to injury or infection—characterized by tissue redness, swelling, heat, and pain
double helix	The natural coiled conformation of two complementary, antiparallel DNA chains.
translation	The assembly of amino acids into polypeptides using the genetic information encoded in the molecules of mRNA.
renin–angiotensin–aldosterone system	A hormonal complex that ensures adequate arterial blood pressure
dna chimera	A DNA containing genetic information derived from two different species.
vesicles	Vesicles are created when part of the cell membrane pinches off and surrounds some kind of cellular product in an enclosed compartment
disruptive selection	Selection that tends to favor the survival of organisms in a population that are at opposite phenotype extremes for a particular character and eliminates individuals with intermediate values (centrifugal selection).
nk cell	see natural killer cell
rna	Abbreviation for ribonucleic acid; composed of many nucleotide subunits arranged in a long chain and associated with the control of cellular chemical activities; carries the information necessary to make proteins.
autoinfection	Reinfection by an organism already present in the body with an increase in the number of parasites without their undergoing a cycle outside the body; self-infection (Strongyloides stercoralis, Hymenolepis nana, Cryptosporidium parvum).
biosphere	The world of living organisms.
cation	An ion with a positive charge, produced by the loss of one or more electrons.
cdna	See complementary DNA.
hydrophobic force	Force exerted by the hydrogen-bonded network of water molecules that brings two nonpolar surfaces together by excluding water between them.
pharmacophore	The 3-D coordinates of atoms corresponding to pharmacologically active components of a drug molecule.
reservoir	In epidemiology, the organism or environment that normally harbors a pathogen.
clade	A group of species that includes an ancestral species and all its descendants.
ciliary photoreceptor	A photoreceptor cell in which the light-sensitive part is a modified cilium; characteristic of vertebrates.
hemispheric	like the half of a globe or sphere.
chlorophyll	The green pigment required for photosynthesis
endemic	natural to (always present in) one geographical region.
oligosaccharin	A type of elicitor (molecule that induces a broad defense response in plants) that is derived from cellulose fragments released by cell wall damage.
entropy	Measure of how much and how far a concentrated form of energy has been dispered after an energy change.
pure covalent bond	A chemical bond between two or more atoms that involves a more or less equal sharing of electrons among the atoms
natural family planning	A form of contraception that relies on refraining from sexual intercourse when conception is most likely to occur; also called the rhythm method.
adenosine diphosphate	A compound of adenosine containing two phosphate groups, ADP is used to synthesize ATP with the energy released in cell respiration
pseudomonad	Member of the genus Pseudomonas, a large group of gram-negative, obligately respiratory (never fermentative) Bacteria.
aperture	Small opening, for example the opening in the test of a foram.
cone cell	One of two types of photoreceptors in the vertebrate eye; detects color during the day
lipopolysaccharide	A lipid attached to a polysaccharide.
multi-	many; used as a prefix, often without the i.
hypoxia	Oxygen starvation at the cellular level.
exoenzyme	A powerful hydrolytic enzyme secreted by a fungus outside its body to digest food
cross-sectional study	The study of a population at a point in time
selectin	Member of a family of cell-surface carbohydrate-binding proteins that mediate transient, Ca2+-dependent cell-cell adhesion in the bloodstream, for example between white blood cells and the endothelium of the blood vessel wall.
follicle	A microscopic structure in the ovary that contains the developing ovum and secretes estrogens
energy trapping	The capture of energy released in one reaction for use in a second reaction.
adaptation	Adjustment of sensitivity following repeated stimulation
ethanol	A particular type of alcohol found in alcoholic beverages.
teraflop	A measure of supercomputer speed equivalent to 10 to the power of 12 floating point operations per second.
rhabdites	the blade-like elements of the sting and ovipositor: a rod or bladelike process projecting from the epidermis.
nuclear matrix	Network of protein fibers in the nucleus; holds the nuclear contents in place.
generation turnover	Time between parents producing offspring and those offspring reaching reproductive age.
hydrogen bond	A weak bond between hydrogen and another atom (usually oxygen, fluorine, or nitrogen)
scion	The twig grafted onto the stock when making a graft.
granular cells	See juxtaglomerular cells.
versatile	moving freely in every direction.
gluconeogenesis	The biosynthesis of a carbohydrate from simpler, noncarbohydrate precursors such as oxaloacetate or pyruvate.
permafrost	A permanently frozen stratum below the arctic tundra.
metapopulation	A subdivided population of a single species.
cytokinesis	Division of the cytoplasm of a plant or animal cell into two, as distinct from the division of its nucleus (which is mitosis)
diffusion	movement of molecules of a substance from a region of high concentration of that substance to a region of lower concentration until the concentration becomes equal.
conserved sequence	A base sequence in a DNA molecule (or an amino acid sequence in a protein) that has remained essentially unchanged throughout evolution.
renaturation	See reannealing.
ethidium bromide	A fluorescent chemical that intercalates between base pairs in a doublestranded DNA molecule
symbiont	A participant in the interactive association (symbiosis) between two individuals or two species
discontinuous variation	Character variations that are sufficiently different from each other that they fall into nonoverlapping classes.
elimination	The passing of undigested material out of the digestive compartment.
dominant	adj
saturated and unsaturated	These terms refer to the number of available bonds for more hydrogens in a hydrocarbon or other organic compound
facultative aerobe	An organism which is normally anaerobic but can also grow in the presence or oxygen (O2)
trapezium	a four-sided figure in which no two sides are parallel
pathogen	an organism that causes disease.
peptidyl transferase	Activity in the ribosome that creates a peptide bond between two amino acids
nuclear matrix	The dense fibrillar network within the nucleus to which loops of chromatin attach.
class	A taxonomic rank that stands between phylum and order; a phylum may include one or more classes, and a class may include one or more orders.
base	compound that produces hydroxide ions, OH_, in aqueous solution
dark reactions	In photosynthesis, steps that can proceed in darkness by means of chemical energy produced by other steps ("light reactions") that depend on the presence of light.
phenotype	Observable properties of an organism produced by the genotype in conjunction with the environment.
osmotic pressure	The pressure that must be applied to a solution to prevent the inward flow of water across a semipermeable membrane.The opposite of water potential.
edentula	those having no teeth.
parsimony	Refers to a rule used to choose among possible cladograms, which states that the cladogram implying the least number of changes in character states is the best.
spindle-attachment checkpoint	Checkpoint that operates during mitosis to ensure that all chromosomes are properly attached to the spindle before sister-chromatid separation starts.
hispid	bristly: sparsely set with short, stiff hair.
acetogenic bacterium	Prokaryotic organism that uses carbonate as a terminal electron acceptor and produces acetic acid as a waste product.
development	/də-VEL-up-ment/ n
generic drug	medication that is the chemical equivalent of a pioneer drug, but that cannot be marketed until the patent protection on the pioneer drug has run out after 20 years
nocturnal	Active only at night.
functional group	distinctive arrangement of groups of atoms that impart characteristic physical and chemical properties to the molecules that contain them
vicariance species	To occur in a location because their ancestors remained there passively as the environment moved around them.
cation	An ion with a positive charge.
eutely	Constancy in the numbers of cells or nuclei from the larval stage to the adult stage.
pressure-flow hypothesis	A hypothesis accounting for sap flow through the phloem system
gross productivity	A measure of the rate at which energy is assimilated by the organisms in a trophic level, a community, or an ecosystem.
delta wave	The slowest type of brain wave; occurs during sleep.
divergence	Evolutionary process that increases differences in initially similar organisms.
ala -ae	a wing or wings.
diabetes mellitus	A metabolic disease resulting from insulin deficiency; characterized by a failure in glucose transport from the blood into cells at normal glucose concentrations.
kreb’s cycle	A series of chemical reactions that takes a two carbon residue from acetyl CoA and strips high energy electrons and hydrogen ions(protons) from the residue
holoblastic cleavage	A type of cleavage in which there is complete division of the egg, as in eggs having little yolk (sea urchin) or a moderate amount of yolk (frog).
g0	G-“zero” phase
segregated	detached or scattered into groups.
teratogen	A substance that causes a birth defect.
alpha wave	A type of brain wave; occurs at relaxed, quiet times.
guttation	The exudation of water droplets, caused by root pressure in certain plants.
microenvironment	A place within a larger environment in which the physical and chemical conditions differ significantly from the average conditions characterizing the larger environment.
aneuploid	Polyploid individual whose chromosome complement is not comprised of an even number of the full set of the haploid chromosome number for the species.
denaturation	The disruption of the native folded structure of a nucleic acid or protein molecule; may be due to heat, chemical treatment, or change in pH.
hardy-weinberg equilibrium	The condition describing a non-evolving population (one that is in genetic equilibrium).
malignant	In reference to a tumor, an infiltrating metastasizing growth no longer under normal growth control.
cellular	Pertaining to cells
pentose phosphate pathway	The pathway involving the oxidation of glucose-6-phosphate to pentose phosphates and further reactions of pentose phosphates.
in vivo	in a living organism
breathing	The process involving alternate inhalation and exhalation of air that ventilates the lungs.
pathogen	A microorganism (such as a bacterium or virus) that causes disease.
dentate nucleus	A group of nerve cell bodies deep inside the cerebellum; plays a role in the control of skilled, rapid movement.
catalyst	Substance that promotes a chemical reaction by lowering the activation energy without itself being changed in the end
angiogenesis	The formation of new blood vessels (e.g., new capillaries) by sprouting of branches from existing vessels.
lorica	A vase-shaped or cup-shaped outer covering
amino acid	A small molecule that is the building block of proteins.
occupational therapy	a type of therapy that teaches (or re-teaches) individuals the skills they would need to lead balanced lives and perform necessary functions for everyday living, and may either be skills that pertain to the home or to work.
anaerobic	Occurring in the absence of air or oxygen.
avidin	A glycoprotein that binds with high affinity to biotin.
in vitro	Denoting a reaction or process taking place in an isolated cell-free extract; sometimes used to distinguish cells growing in culture from those in an organism.
zygote	A single-celled individual formed by the union of gametes
sporadic	Occurring in a random or isolated manner.
psammophilous	living in sandy places.
typical	the normal or usual form of a species; agreeing with the type form.
estuary	A body of water along a seacoast that is partially enclosed by land and that receives inputs of both freshwater and seawater; it is intermediate in salinity between freshwater and seawater.
stem cell	A cell from which other cells stem or arise by differentiation.
proline	One of 20 amino acids essential for human life.
cytochromes	Heme proteins serving as electron carriers in respiration, photosynthesis, and other oxidation-reduction reactions.
pyloric valve	the specialized posterior portion of crop where there is no distinct gizzard.
shine-delgarno sequence	A sequence in the mRNA which can pair with the ribosome facilitating the initiation of protein synthesis
random primers	A set of short oligonucleotides with variable sequences
master mix	A concentrated mixture of reaction components that can easily and consistently be diluted with water, primers, and template for use in a PCR.
punctuated equilibrium	In evolutionary theory, long periods of apparent stasis (no change) interrupted by relatively brief periods of sudden change.
asperities	surface roughenings or dot-like elevations.
photosynthesis	Process by which plants, algae and some bacteria use the energy of sunlight to drive the synthesis of organic molecules from carbon dioxide and water.
adaptive enzyme	see ENZYME.
annoymous locus	Polymorphic DNA region with no known fucntion but useful in map studies for positioning loci of interest.
product	substance formed from reactants as a result of a chemical reaction
isolation	1
pathogen-associated molecular pattern	A small molecular motif that is consistently found on pathogens and is recognized as a non-self molecule by a pattern recognition receptor of the innate immune system.
shagreened	a surface roughened with minute tooth-like projections.
zona pellucida	Glycoprotein layer on the surface of the unfertilized egg
yeast integrative plasmid	A yeast vector that relies on integration into the host chromosome for replication.
activation energy	Amount of energy required to bring all molecules in one mole of a substance to their reactive state at a given temperature.
glutamate	An amino acid that functions as a CNS neurotransmitter.
brevis	short.
cellulose	Structural polysaccharide consisting of long chains of covalently linked glucose units
cell commitment	That stage in a cell's life when it be comes committed to a certain line of development.
heterokaryotype	A genome or individual that is heterozygous for a chromosomal rearrangement such as an inversion.
imaging agent	A chemical that is readily detectable by a medical imaging system
diuretic	A drug used to increase urine formation and output
paedomorphosis	The incorporation of adult sexual features into immature developmental stages
ophthalmic	relating to the eye.
metabolic turnover	A measure of the rate at which already existing molecules of the given species are replaced by newly-synthesized molecules of the same type
tissue	A group of similar cells bound together by intercellular material that carry out a common set of functions.
osteoclast	Macrophage-like cell that erodes bone, enabling it to be remodeled during growth and in response to stresses throughout life.
fals	Familial Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis
cystic fibrosis	an inherited disease in which a thick mucus clogs the lungs and blocks the ducts of the pancreas.
dermal tissue system	The outer protective covering of plants.
conservation biology	A goal-oriented science that seeks to counter the biodiversity crisis, the current rapid decrease in Earth's variety of life.
osteoblast	A bone-forming cell that deposits collagen.
chlorophyll	The pigment in green plants that absorbs solar energy.
heteronomous	if two parts, compared with each other, are of different quality: differing in development or function.
magnetic compass	A mechanism by which an animal uses Earth’s magnetic field to determine compass direction in navigation.
asphalt	A dark bituminous substance found in natural beds
abscess	A localized accumulation of pus due to infection.
histone-like proteins	Proteins from bacteria which bind to DNA, and compact the DNA.
lysosome	An organelle containing digestive enzymes for intracellular digestion
sociobiology	The study of the social relations and behaviors of animals from an evolutionary perspective.
conditional mutation	A mutation that changes a protein or RNA molecule so that its function is altered only under some conditions, such as at an unusually high or an unusually low temperature.
homeotic gene	A gene in which mutations cause cells in one region of the body to act as though they were located in another, giving rise to conversions of one cell, tissue, or body region into another.
pyrimidines	A class of nitrogenous compounds containing one heterocyclic ring
opal codon	The UGA stop codon.
mad cow disease	Another term for bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE).
turgid	Swollen and firm from fluids
transfer rna	A class of 
convergence	the approaching or drawing together at tips.
metabolism	The set of processes by which cells and organisms acquire, rearrange, and void commodities (e.g., elements or energy) in ways that sustain life.
absporption	Movement of ions and water into an organism as a result of metabolic processes, frequently against an elecrochemcical potential gradient (active) or as a result of diffucsion along an activity gradient (passive).
electron acceptor	Substance that accepts or receives electrons in an oxidation-reduction reaction, becoming reduced in the process.
hemi	as a prefix, means half.
series	In relation to the arrangement of parts in an electrical circuit, vascular system, or other analogous system in which substances flow from place to place, the parts of the system are in series if they occur sequentially along a single path of flow, so that all flow must occur sequentially through all parts
depleted uranium	contains almost entirely U-238 (99.8%) and has been depleted of most of the U-235 that it once naturally contained
nitrificaqtion	The process by which ammonia is converted to nitrite (NO2-) and then nitrate (NO3-) by microorganisms.
turgid	swollen.
salvage pathway	A family of reactions that permits, for instance, nucleosides as well as purine and pyrimidine bases resulting from the partial breakdown of nucleic acids to be re-utilized in nucleic acid synthesis.
polarity	A lack of symmetry
reaction	In chemistry, any process in which one molecule is converted into another by the removal or addition of atoms, or in which the arrangement of atoms in a molecule or molecules is altered by a change in chemical bonds.
risk assessment	organized evaluation of scientific data to predict the probability of an occurrence
tobacco mosaic virus	His experiments showed that crushed leaf extracts from infected tobacco plants remain infectious after filtration
hydrolysis	The cleavage of a molecule by the addition of water
coccus	COCK-uhs/ Any spherical or ovoid bacterium.
polyclonal	Derived from multiple clones.
sickle-cell anemia	A genetic trait which confers resistance to malaria but which causes a reduction in numbers of red blood cells.
carnivorous interactions	Species interactions in which one organism eats another organism.
gfp	See Green Flourescent Protein.
nosocomial infection	Hospital-acquired infection.
tactile	used for touching; an organ that has the sense of touch.
ecological pyramid	A graphic representation of the quantitative relationships of numbers of organisms, biomass, or energy flow between the trophic levels of an ecosystem
ratite	Member of the group of flightless birds.
physical therapy	Treatment of injury or disease by physical therapeutic means instead of by medical, surgical, or radiologic measures
guard cell	A specialized dermal cell in plants that is used to regulate the size of the pores(stoma) on the surface of plants through which gas exchange and water loss take place
rectangulate	forming or meeting in a right angle.
methyl transferase	Enzymes that catalyze the transfer of methyl groups from one molecule to another.
infra-ocular	applied to the region below and between the eyes.
sexual selection	Selection based on variation in secondary sex characteristics, leading to the enhancement of sexual dimorphism.
coactivator	A molecule that functions together with a protein apoactivator
chert	Hard, dense sedimentary rock, composed of interlocking quartz crystals and possibly amorphous silica (opal)
acid	Any substance that when added to water donates hydrogen ions to the solution
archipelago	n
melting temperature	Midpoint of the melting range of DNA.
capillary	A microscopic blood vessel that penetrates the tissues and consists of a single layer of endothelial cells that allows exchange between the blood and interstitial fluid.
photogenic	a light producing structure; producing a Phosphorescent glow.
bioprospecting	Searching for new plant and microbial strains that may serve as sources for natural products, such as phytopharmaceuticals.
racemic mixture	A mixture of two kinds of molecules whose structures are similar but differ in that they are mirror images of each other (one kind cannot be superimposed on the other)
community	All organisms that occupy a common habitat and interact with one another.
nutrient	Any element or simple compound necessary for the health and survival of an organism
congenital	A condition that is present at birth.
richness	The number of different species within an area.
agglutination	Aggregation formed by the combination of antibody and particle-bound antigen.
facilitated diffusion	diffusion of materials across a cell membrane assisted by carrier molecules.
apodous	without feet; see apodal.
polar	Possessing hydrophilic characteristics and generally water soluble.
adaptive landscape	A model originally devised by Sewall Wright that describes a topography in which high fitnesses correspond to peaks and low fitnesses to valleys; each position potentially occupied by a population bearing a unique and frequent genotype.
label	Chemical group, radioactive atom or fluorescent dye added to a molecule in order to follow its progress through a biochemical reaction or to locate it spatially
polysome	See Polyribosome.
circadian clock	Internal cyclical process that produces a particular change in a cell or organism with a period of around 24 hours, for example the sleep-wakefulness cycle in humans.
niche	n
attenuation2	A process that plays a role in the regulation of enzymes involved in amino acid biosynthesis.
gravitropism	A response of a plant or animal to gravity
atom	The smallest unit of matter that retains the properties of an element.
pulsatile	having the power of pulsating or moving in a rhythmic manner: applied to special organs in the legs, which aid in circulating the blood in these appendages.
tentiform	shaped like a tent: see mines.
anode	Positive pole or electrode of an electrolytic system
pone	behind (the middle).
initiation factor	Protein that promotes the proper association of ribosomes with messenger RNA and is required for the initiation of protein synthesis.
bicuspidate	ending in two points or cusps.
translation	Formation of a protein at a ribosome; the amino acid sequence of the protein is directed by a specific messenger RNA molecule.
amino acids	α-Amino-substituted carboxylic acids, the building blocks of proteins.
compartment	A contiguous group of cells, descended from the same progenitor cell, that form a spatially discrete part of a developing organ or structure and often act as a discrete developmental unit
mesic	Moderately moist
coordinate induction	Simultaneous synthesis of several enzymes that is stimulated by a single environmental factor.
affinity	Affinity is the tendency of a molecule to associate with another
deamination	The enzymatic removal of amino groups from biomolecules such as amino acids or nucleotides.
dyad	A pair.
connective-tissue cell	Any of the various cell types found in connective tissue, e.g
aminoacyl trna	Activated form of amino acid used in protein synthesis
species evenness	A description of the distribution of abundance across the species in a community.
selective breeding	method of improving a species by choosing animals or plants that have desirable characteristics to produce offspring that have the parents' desirable traits.
contig map	A map depicting the relative order of a series of small overlapping clones representing a chromosomal segment.
bioremediation	The use of living organisms to detoxify and restore polluted and degraded ecosystems.
epigenetic inheritance	Inheritance of traits transmitted by mechanisms not directly involving the nucleotide sequence.
computer-assisted drug design *	Computer-assisted drug design involves all computer-assisted techniques used to discover, design and optimize biologically active compounds with a putative use as drugs.
orthologous	Refers to corresponding (homologous) members of a gene family in two or more species.
ecotype	A phenotypic and genotypic variant of a species associated with a particular environmental habitat
eradicant	a fungicide which can kill a pathogen both outside and inside the host, because it is systemic (cf
phosphocreatine	A phosphorylated form of creatine
replication restart	An event that occurs when replication forks that collapse or disintegrate spontaneously do not progress to the completion of the chromosome; the replication fork is reasembled at the site of its collapse.
monosaccharide	Simple sugar with the general formula (CH2O)n, where n = 3 to 8.
predaceous	preying upon other organisms, as in the nematode-exploiting fungi.
interference	When the occurance of a crossover in a region of DNA reduces the probability of a second crossover in the same region.
antibiosis	Inhibition or lysis of an organism mediated by metabolic products of the antagonist; these products include lytic agents, enzymes, volatile compounds, and other toxic substances.
polymorphonuclear leukocytes	Phagocytic white blood cells with a lobed nucleus.
polymer	A polymer is a large molecule made out of repeating molecular subunits
biomarker	A specific biological trait, such as the level of a certain molecule in the body, that can be measured to indicate the progression of a disease or condition.
cordate	heart-shaped; triangular, with the corners of the base rounded: not necessarily emarginate at the middle of base.
alpha-complementation	The ability of a short N-terminal fragment of beta-galactosidase to interact with the C-terminal portion of beta-galactosidase to form a functional enzyme.
sti	Sexually Transmitted Infection
subunit	Individual polypeptide chains in a protein.
root nodule	A tumor-like growth on plant roots that contains symbiotic nitrogen-fixing bacteria.
radiation sickness	illness characterized by early symptoms of anemia, nausea, malaise, and susceptibility to infection that results from a large exposure to radiation
oblate	flattened; applied to a spheroid of which the diameter is shortened at two opposite ends.
spiral fibre	the spiral thickening or folding of the chitinous lining of a trachea, which gives to the latter its characteristic microscopic appearance as well as its support and elasticity:= ctenidium.
frontal lobes	One of the four lobes of the brain
bile salts	Derivatives of cholesterol with detergent properties that aid in the solubilization of lipid molecules in the digestive tract.
scutate-iform	shield or buckler-shaped.
petiole	The stalk of a leaf, which joins the leaf to a node of the stem.
cutaneous	Relating to the skin.
sculpture	the markings or pattern of impression or elevation on an elytra or other body surface.
cold aclimation response	The process by which plants increase their tolerance to freezing by exposure to low, nonfreezing temperatures.
fission	A type of cell division in which overall (i.e., not localized) cell growth is followed by septum formation which typically divides the fully grown cell into two similar or identical cells.
hypertrophied	abnormally large or excessively developed.
arteriole	A very small artery
greenhouse effect	The warming of planet Earth due to the atmospheric accumulation of carbon dioxide, which absorbs infrared radiation and slows its escape from the irradiated Earth.
abo blood group	Classification of red blood cells based on the presence or absence of A and B carbohydrate antigens.
primary structure	A description of a protein solely in terms of the sequence of amino acids and the position of certain chemical bonds, usually disulfide bonds
species diversity	A measure of the number of species in a community, and a measure of the abundance of each species.
lipids	a class of biochemical compounds which includes fats, oils, and waxes.
conformation	The spatial arrangement of substituent groups that are free to assume different positions in space, without breaking any bonds, because of the freedom of bond rotation.
akt	see protein kinase B
genome-wide association study	A study that compares the complete DNA of individuals with a particular condition to the DNA of individuals without the condition, with the objective of identifying the genes that play roles in causing the condition.
primary consumer	An herbivore; an organism in the trophic level of an ecosystem that eats plants or algae.
yeast	A unicellular form of fungi
star compass	A mechanism by which an animal can use the positions of stars and constellations (and an internal clock) to determine compass direction in nocturnal navigation.
mimic	Alleles at different loci that produce the same phenotype.
autogamy	The mode of reproduction in which fusion of two haploid nuclei from the same individual results in formation of the zygote.
solvent	substance capable of dissolving other substances
daily torpor	In mammals and birds, a form of controlled hypothermia in which the body temperature is able to approximate ambient temperature for part (but only part) of each 24-hour day, generally on many consecutive days.
decomposer	An organism that breaks down the tissue and/or structures of dead organisms.
density dependent inhibitor	any factor that has a greater impact on a population as the population increases
mutagenic	See mutation
interspecific interactions	Competition between members of different species.
premorse	as if bitten off: with a blunt or jagged termination.
immune response	The capacity of a vertebrate to generate antibodies to an antigen, a macromolecule foreign to the organism.
pressure	The force a fluid (liquid or gas) exerts in a perpendicular direction on solid surfaces with which it is in contact
caste	A group of individuals that are physically, and often physiologically, distinct and engage in specialized behavior within a social group.
root system	All of a plant's roots that anchor it in the soil, absorb and transport minerals and water, and store food.
phanerozoic eon	A major division of the geological time scale marked by the relatively abundant appearance of fossilized skeletons of multicellular organisms, dating from about 545 million years ago to the present.
population viability analysis	A method of predicting whether or not a population will persist.
coenzyme a	A coenzyme that functions as a carrier of acyl groups in metabolic reactions.
organotroph	In reference to energy source (electron donor) - An organism which obtains energy by the metabolism of organic substrates (as electron donors)
public health	The health of the population as a whole.
cohort	A group of individuals of the same age, from birth until all are dead.
terminal redundancy	The presence of identical DNA sequences repeated at the two ends of DNA molecule (e.g
trait	Any detectable variation in a genetic character.
predator	Organism which hunts and eats other organisms
bond energy	The energy required to break a bond.
phyletic	See phylogenetic.
gene locus	Place on a chromosome where a gene is located
cutaneous	kyoo-TANE-ee-uhs/ Of or pertaining to skin.
base	The adenine, guanine, cytosine or thymine group attached to a nucleotide or nucleoside
annulate	ringed or marked with colored bands.
learning	Acquisition of a behavior through experience.
uniport	A transport system that carries only one solute, as distinct from cotransport.
luminescence	Production of light.
fruiting body	A macroscopic reproductive structure produced by some fungi (e.g., mushrooms) and some Bacteria (e.g., myxobacteria)
vaginate	inclosed in a bivalved sheath.
balance hypothesis	Proposes that much of the molecular variation seen in natural populations is maintained by balancing selection that favors genetic variation.
colony-forming unit	Any entity (usually a viable single cell) which can form a colony on an agar plate.
transcription	One part of the process that uses the DNA code to make a protein.
microclimate	Very fine scale variations of climate, such as the specific climatic conditions underneath a log.
plc-γ	see phospholipase C-γ
generalized tonic-clonic	Tonic-clonic seizures that are generalized, meaning they are caused by discharges from both sides of the brain
neutral mutation	A mutation that does not affect the fitness of an organism in a particular environment.
primitive	adj
extant	Currently in existence.
hypertely	beyond the bounds of the useful: those forms whose resemblance to other objects is closer than needful, or without apparent object.
undefined medium	A growth medium in which not all the components have been identified
3-np	Abbreviation for 3-nitroproprionic acid.
brachia	the arms: has been applied to raptorial fore-legs.
phosphoglyceraldehyde	(Also called G3P) A three carbon compound found as an intermediate both in glycolysis and in the Calvin-Benson cycle of photosynthesis
cytoskeleton	System of protein filaments in the cytoplasm of a eucaryotic cell that gives the cell shape and the capacity for directed movement
lapidicolous	living under deeply imbedded stones.
centrosomes	The major microtubule organizing centers of an animal cell.
paratype	is every specimen of the series from which the type was selected see type and cotype.
hypersensitive response	A plant's localized defense response to a pathogen.
microorganism	A living organism too small to be seen with the naked eye; includes bacteria, fungi, protozoans, and microscopic algae; also includes viruses.
analyte	Any molecule that is measured by physical, chemical or biological means.
ovarian aspiration	Removal of oocytes through a needle inserted into a follicle of the ovary with suction applied to the needle.
photophosphorylation	The enzymatic formation of ATP from ADP coupled to the light-dependent transfer of electrons in photosynthetic cells.
saturated	Describes a molecule containing carbon–carbon bonds that has only single covalent bonds.
vector	In cell biology, an agent that can carry DNA into a cell or organism
ergotism	ergot poisoning, of two main types in man: the gangrenous and the convulsive; historically known as `St
nuclear transfer	laboratory procedure in which a cell's nucleus is removed and placed into an egg cell that has had its own nucleus removed
initiation factors	Those protein factors that are specifically required during the initiation phase of protein synthesis.
plasma	The fluid portion of blood.
anaerobic	(i) Absence of molecular oxygen
turnover number	The maximum number of molecules of substrate that can be converted to product per active site per unit time.
scarified	a surface with irregular depressions, as if clawed or scratched.
callosity	a thick swollen lump, harder than its surroundings: = callous: also a rather flattened elevation not necessarily harder than the surrounding tissue.
costulatus	less prominently ribbed than costate.
amastigote	Small, round, intracellular stage of Leishmania spp
hairy root culture	A plant culture system based on highly branched roots generated by plant tissue with agrobacterium rhizogenes
chromogenic	Producing color; a chromogenic colony is a pigmented colony.
b1	A cross in which an F1 or F1' individual is mated to one of its parents (P1) or to another individual that is genetically identical to one of its parents.
mtck	See mitochondrial creatine kinase.
neutrophil	The most abundant type of white blood cell
nitrogen fixation	The assimilation of atmospheric nitrogen by certain prokaryotes into nitrogenous compounds that can be directly used by plants.
eudismic ratio	Eudismic ratio is the potency of the eutomer relative to that of the distomer.
intragenic complementation	The ability of two mutant forms of a gene, neither of which produce an active gene product, to produce a functional or partially functional gene product
blunt end	Piece of DNA that has been cleaved with a restriction enzyme which has left the 3' end of one strand flush with the 5' end of the other strand.
lysozyme	An enzyme that hydrolyzes the peptidoglycan within the cell walls of bacteria.
pododunera	apterous insects with biting mouth structures.
nernst equation	Mathematical expression that defines the electric potential E across a membrane as directly proportional to the logarithm of the ratio of the ion concentrations on either side of the membrane and inversely proportional to the valency of the ions.
key adaptation	An adaptation that provides the basis for using a new, substantially different habitat or resource.
favus	a cell like that of a honeycomb.
sarcoma	Cancer of connective tissue.
calorie	The amount of heat required to raise the temperature of 1.0 g of water from 14.5 to 15.5 °
rheumatic fever	An inflammatory autoimmune disease triggered by an immune response to infection by Streptococcus pyogenes.
hydrophilic molecule	A polar compound that forms hydrogen bonds with water and dissolves easily in water.
peptide nucleic acid	A DNA mimic that incorporates a peptide-like polyamide backbone.
diagnosis	/die-ag-NOE-səs, die-əg-/ n
plasmalogen	A phospholipid with an alkenyl ether substituent on the C-1 of glycerol.
compound ascoma	a teleomorphic fructification incorporating several to many distinct ascomata on or in a single structure, as in the Clavicipitales and Xylariales.
epididymis	Part of the male reproductive system
homophonous	words differently written but indistinguishable in sound, applied to different conceptions.
minimal medium	see MEDIUM.
unidentate	with one tooth only.
intensive property	An intensive property is one where the property is independent of the size of the system
plaga	a spot, stripe or streak of color; a longitudinal spot of irregular form.
lysosome	An organelle that contains hydrolytic enzymes designed to break down proteins that are targeted to that organelle.
patch-clamp	A technique that uses a microelectrode to record current flow across a membrane.
epipleural fold	the raised lower edge of the epipleura: see hypomera.
monosomic	Having one less chromosome than the normal diploid number; missing a chromosome of one homologous pair.
tetragonal	having four sides or angles: quadrangular.
quantum	The ultimate unit of energy.
principle of superposition	The idea that in deposits of sedimentary rock the oldest deposits are on the bottom and the youngest deposits are on the top
cki	see Cdk inhibitor protein
reduction	A process by which a compound accepts electrons to become reduced.
direct relative	Relative in direct line of descent.
first law of thermodynamics	The law stating that in all processes, the total energy of the universe remains constant.
cenozoic era	The period of geologic time beginning after the end of the
biogenesis	The theory that living systems arise only from pre-existent living systems.
primary production	The amount of light energy from the sun converted to chemical energy (organic compounds) by autotrophs (e.g
complex iv	One of the electron transport chain proteins
substrate	A molecule acted upon by an enzyme.
heterotroph	An organism that cannot use inorganic materials to synthesize the organic compounds needed for growth but obtains them by feeding on other organisms or their products, such as a carnivore, herbivore, parasite, scavenger, or saprophyte.
cariose -ous	corroded; appearing as if worm-eaten.
corticosteroids	Steroid hormones formed by the adrenal cortex.
vacuole	organelle that stores materials such as water, salts, proteins, and carbohydrates.
first principle molecular dynamics	The use of quantum chemical interactions to simulate the motion of molecules.
biogenetic law	The concept that stages in the development of an individual (ontogeny) recapitulate the evolutionary history (phylogeny) of the species
fluorescence energy transfer	Transfer of energy between two fluorophors.
divergent evolution	/də-VERJ-ənt, die-/ adj
gymnosperms	Non-flowering seed plants, for example, pine.
carnivores	Flesh eaters; organisms (almost entirely animal, rarely plant) that feed on animals.
albinic	of the character of an albino.
electron microscope	A high-powered, expensive device that uses beams of electrons to bring the finest details of cells into focus.
hydrogen bond	A weak, noncovalent, attractive force between one electronegative atom and a hydrogen atom that is covalently linked to a second electronegative atom.
gene	The genetic unit of function
electron carrier	A protein, such as a ilavoprotein or a cytochrome, that can reversibly gain and lose electrons; funetions in the transfer of electrons from organic nutrients to oxygen or some other terminal acceptor.
vaccination	Artificial introduction of a killed or attenuated pathogen to promote protective immunity
fret	see fluorescent resonance energy transfer
falciform	curved like a sickle.
scariose -ous	dry and scaly.
carbon dioxide equilibrium curve	In relation to the CO2-carrying properties of blood, a graph of the total carbon dioxide concentration as a function of the CO2 partial pressure of the blood
hvtn	HIV Vaccine Trials Network
cytochrome b-c1 complex	Another term for Complex III.
catabolism	That part of metabolism that is concerned with degradation reactions.
mantle	A fold of tissue in molluscs that drapes over the visceral mass and may secrete a shell.
book lung	A set of soft overlapping flaps, covered up by a plate on the abdomen, through which oxygen is taken up and carbon dioxide given off
bombifrons	front of head with a blister-like protuberance.
theria	The viviparous mammalian subclass, consisting of marsupials and placentals.
environment	The place in which an organism lives, and the circumstances under which it lives
conidiation	the process of producing conidia.
germ-plasm theory	States that cells in the reproductive organs carry a complete set of genetic information.
enzyme	A molecule—usually a protein—that catalyzes a chemical reaction in which covalent bonds are made or broken.
internal environment	The environment of the cells within an animal’s body
chlorophyll	A green photosynthetic pigment that is made of a magnesium dihydroporphyrin complex.
vegetative reproduction	Cloning of plants by asexual means.
lock-and-key model	A model of enzyme action in which the substrate fits precisely into the enzyme active site.
rna polymerase ii holoenzyme	Large pre-assumbled complex of RNA polymerase II, most of the general transcription factors required for its function, and the mediator protein complex.
post-oral	behind the mouth; those segments bearing mouth structures.
rectum adj. rectal	the final part of the intestines that ends at the anus
aerobic	The use of molecular oxygen for reactions that provide growth energy from the oxidative breakdown of food molecules.
resonance hybrid	A molecular structure that is a hybrid of two structures that differ in the locations of some of the electrons
transcript	RNA product of DNA transcription.
cgn	see cis Golgi network
homonymous	pertaining to homology of parts arranged on a transverse axis similarly developed and of equal function.
clone	Cells derived from a single cell and thus expected to be genetically identical.
risk	the chance or probability that a particular event will or will not happen
fetal antigen	An embryonic antigen that may be re-expressed in cancer.
regulon	A group of genes or operons located at different positions on the chromosome but respond to a common regulatory protein.
boreal	adj
atrocoeruleus	very deep, blackish, sky-blue.
retinoblastoma	A tumor of the retina.
gross primary productivity	The total primary productivity of an ecosystem.
life cycle	The entire sequence of stages in the life of an organisms, from the adults of one generation to the adults of the next.
copy number	The number of molecules of a particular plasmid present in a bacterium.
specificity	The ability of the immune response to interact with individual antigens.
rapid-equilibrium approximation	To simplify the quantitative description of enzyme action, a number of assumptions are invoked
purkinje cells	A specific type of nerve cell that carries each and every piece of information sent out by the cerebellum
andesite	Igneous volcanic rock, less mafic than basalt, but more mafic than dacite; rough volcanic equivalent of diorite.
phospholipid	A molecule that is a constituent of the inner bilayer of biological membranes, having a polar, hydrophilic head and a nonpolar, hydrophobic tail.
cranial nerve	A nerve that leaves the brain and innervates an organ of the head or upper body
denaturation	Process that separates the strands of doublestranded DNA when DNA is heated.
annealing	Pairing of a single-stranded nucleic acid with the complementary strand to form a duplex.
kilojoule	Standard unit of energy equal to 1000 joules, or 0.24 kilocalories.
addorsal	close to but not quite on the middle of the dorsum.
null hypothesis	In statistical analysis, a hypothesis proposing that there is no statistically significant difference between the observed results of an experiment and the expected results.
magma	n
intergenic suppressor	Restoration of partial or complete wild-type phenotype by second mutation in a different gene than a primary mutation which resulted in a negative phenotype
transesterification	Chemical reaction in some RNA splicing reactions.
systematic name	In enzyme nomenclature, a name that precisely defines the catalytic activity of an enzyme
ames test	A simple bacterial test for carcinogens, based on the assumption that carcinogens are mutagens.
prosthetic group	A metal ion or an organic compound (other than an amino acid) that is covalently bound to a protein and is essential to its activity.
matter	anything takes up space and has mass
cgmp	See cyclic guanosine monophosphate.
transmitting ability	One-half the breeding value of an individual
las	Lymphadenopathy Syndrome
mg2+	See Magnesium ion.
epidemiologist	Someone who studies epidemiology.
paroxetine	A member of the class of drugs known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs)
laevis -igatus	smooth, shining and without elevations: said of a surface.
nucleoside monophosphate kinase	An enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of the terminal phosphate of ATP to a nucleoside 5'-monophosphate.
coenzyme	Low-molecular-weight chemical which participates in an enzymatic reaction by accepting and donating electrons or functional groups.
attomole	One quintillionth mole; 10-18 mole.
hap-1	huntingtin-associated protein-1
metabolism	sum of al the chemical processes that occur in a living organism and keep it alive.
5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid	A molecule that is made from serotonin
sinkhole	n
bond strength	The strength with which a chemical bond holds two atoms together; conventionally measured in terms of the amount of energy, in kilocalories per mole, required to break the bond.
acidophile	An organism that grows optimally at acidic (low) pH values (usually below 6, sometimes as low as 1) and grows poorly or not at all under higher pH conditions (i.e
toxigenic	producing toxins.
fixed act	A simple all-or-none behavioral response to a stimulus
chemical formula	symbolic way to represent the elementary composition of a substance, indicating the kinds and numbers of atoms present in a molecule
polysaccharide	A long chain of monosaccharides (sugars) linked by glycosidic bonds.
mhc ii	Proteins that bind to and "present" proteins of foreign substances on the surface of cells for recognition by other immune cells.
neurotrophic factor	A protein in the nervous system that promotes the growth of nerve cells.
primary coolant	liquid that comes in direct contact with the nuclear reactor core to carry away heat
glyoxysome	An organelle containing some enzymes of the glyoxylate cycle.
unbalanced data	An experimental outcome in which there are unequal numbers of observations within each group, especially in ANOVA.
leydig cell	A cell that produces testosterone and other androgens and is located between the seminiferous tubules of the testes.
evolutionary species concept	The idea that evolutionary lineages and ecological roles can form the basis of species identification.
chemical compound libraries	These are collections of thousands of different molecular compounds each of which has the potential to interact with biological targets.
carbon film	Thin layer of carbon remains of past life found in sedimentary rocks.
riluzole	A drug that has been shown to have energy buffering and anti-glutamate properties
domain	Region of a protein with a distinct tertiary structure (e.g., globular or rodlike) and characteristic activity; homologous domains may occur in different proteins.
morphogenesis	Literally the origin of form
capillaceous	capilla or hair-like.
photosystem	Multiprotein complex involved in photosynthesis that captures the energy of sunlight and converts it to useful forms of energy.
anabolism	System of biosynthetic reactions in a cell by which large molecules are made from smaller ones.
nutrient broth	A general-purpose liquid basal medium composed of e.g
reducing equivalent	A general or neutral term for an electron or an electron equivalent in the form of a hydrogen atom or a hydride ion.
electroporation	A method for transferring DNA (or other small molecules) into cells by exposure to a rapid pulse of high voltage, which causes the transient formation of small pores in the cell membrane.
pin	Type of distylic flower possessing a long style and short anthers.
chi-square test	A statistical test that allows one to determine whether observed quantities of a specific characteristic differed from the expected value purely by chance.
isoelectric focusing	An electrophoretic method for separating macromolecules on the basis of their isoelectric pH.
crossing-over	see chromosomal crossing-over
analogy	The similarity of structure between two species that are not closely related; attributable to convergent evolution.
obsessive-compulsive disorder	An anxiety disorder characterized by repeated, upsetting thoughts called obsessions and by repetitive behaviors aimed at reducing the obsessions.
transcription	The enzymatic process whereby the genetic information contained in one strand of DNA is used to specify a complementary sequence of bases in an mRNA chain.
enzyme	protein that acts as a catalyst for specific biochemical reaction, converting specific substrates into chemically distinct products.
cag codon	The codon (particular sequence of letters) in the DNA code that is repeated 40 or more times along part of the Huntington gene in people who have Huntington's disease.
keratins	Insoluble protective or structural proteins consisting of parallel polypeptide chains in α-helical or β conformations.
gas exchange	The uptake of molecular oxygen from the environment and the discharge of carbon dioxide to the environment.
monosomy	Absence of one of the chromosomes of a homologous pair.
breccia	n
regulatory enzyme	An enzyme in which the active site is subject to regulation by factors other than the enzyme substrate
survival factor	Extracellular signal required for a cell to survive; in its absence the cell will undergo apoptosis and die.
phase change	A shift from one developmental phase to another.
refolding chromatography	A chromatographic technique for the rescue of misfolded proteins that have aggregated and become insoluble.
arenose	a surface that is sandy or gritty.
pupiparous	bringing forth young ready to pupate.
autoimmunity	Immune reactions of a host against its own self constituents.
monounsaturated fat	A type of unsaturated fat in which there is only one double bond.
endoplasmic reticulum	(ER) network of membranes in eukaryotic cells which helps in control of protein synthesis and cellular organization.
additive theorem	The probability of the occurrence of one of several mutually exclusive events is the sum of probabilities associated with each individual event.
heat	total amount of kinetic energy due to molecular motion in a body of matter
lime water	chemical solution used to detect the presence of carbon dioxide.
gerontogeic	belonging to the old world: see neogeic.
protein	An important kind of molecule in the human body, consisting of a sequence of amino acids
frustule	The mineral "skeleton" of a diatom or other unicellular organism.
cytochrome b-c1 complex	Second of the three electron-driven proton pumps in the respiratory chain
isomers	One of several organic compounds with the same molecular formula but different structures and therefore different properties
vitamin	A trace organic substance required in the diet of some species
affinity	See enzyme–substrate affinity, oxygen affinity.
sigmoid	shaped like the Greek letter sigma, or English S.
endothermic	Referring to organisms with bodies that are warmed by heat generated by metabolism
telophase	Final stage of mitosis in which the two sets of separated chromosomes decondense and become enclosed by nuclear envelopes.
activation energy	energy necessary to initiate a chemical reaction
oxidizing agent	The electron acceptor in a redox reaction.
antibiotic	Substance such as penicillin or streptomycin that is toxic to microorganisms
β oxidation	Oxidative degradation of fatty acids into acetyl-CoA by successive oxidations at the β-carbon atom.
mitosis	The process of nuclear division in eukaryotes
predictive testing	Predictive testing determines whether the genetic sequence that causes HD is present or absent (also called genetic testing).
adrenal cortex	The outer portion of the adrenal gland
sporangiophore	specialized hyphal branch bearing one or more sporangia in Oomycetes, Zygomycetes, etc.
flavin-mononucleotide	A coenzyme synthesized from riboflavin
dentary	/DENT-er-ee/ n
acceptor control	The regulation of the rate of respiration by the availability of ADP as phosphate group acceptor.
kanamycin	An antibiotic that inhibits protein synthesis by binding to the 30s ribosomal subunit and preventing translocation
caudad	toward the posterior end of the body, along the median line.
auxiliary	additional, or supplementing.
prokaryotes	Organisms — such as bacteria and blue-green algae — with cells that do not contain a nucleus.
in situ	A Latin phrase meaning "in the original place"
element	Any substance that cannot be broken down to any other substance.
positive cooperativity	A phenomenon of some multisubunit enzymes or proteins in which binding of a ligand or substrate to one subunit facilitates binding to another subunit.
bioenergetics	The study of how organisms manage their energy resources.
gene cloning	The isolation of a desired gene from one organism and its incorporation into a suitable vector for the production of large amounts of the gene.
acetoclastis	The process of splitting acetate into methane and carbon dioxide by s ome methanogens.
summer spores	(of rust fungi) see UREDINIOSPORES.
antiport	A type of cotransport in which a membrane protein (antiporter) transports two different molecules or ions across a cell membrane in opposite directions
drug delivery	The delivery of a drug to the site of action
milligram	one-thousandth of a gram: written as `mg'.
dominance	Relations within a group in which one or more individuals, sustained by aggression or other behaviors, rank higher than others in controlling the conduct of group members.
autoimmune disease	A pathological state in which the body mounts an immune response against one or more of its own potential antigens.
calorimeter	device with which the quantity of heat energy released in a combustion reaction can be determined experimentally
ureter	A duct leading from the kidney to the urinary bladder.
acquired immunodeficiency syndrome	Serve immune deficiency disease caused by human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) infection of the T cells, characterized by opportunistic infections and other complications.
renal cortex	The outer portion of the vertebrate kidney
primary structure	In an informational macromolecule, such as a polypeptide or a nucleic acid, the pricise sequence of monomeric units.
protease	An enzyme that degrades proteins to peptides or amino acids.
solid	applied to an organ usually jointed, when these joints form into one mass; e.g
variation	Differences between members of the same species.
carotenoids	Lipid-soluble photosynthetic pigments made up of isoprene units.
lymphocytes	Two classes of white blood cells that can recognize foreign molecules (antigens) and mediate immune responses
lesion mimics	Also known as 'disease lesion mimics', this describes a class of phenotypes in which spontaneous cell death occurs as discrete 'zones' or 'lesions' that resemble the cell death that is observed during the hypersensitive response.
pathogen	(adjective pathogenic) An organism or other agent that causes disease.
gene amplification	see amplification.
node	For plants, the area of the stem where the leaves arise.
positional information	Information supplied to or possessed by cells according to their position in a multicellular organism
buffers	A substance that consists of acid and base forms in a solution and that minimizes changes in pH when extraneous acids or bases are added to the solution.
tetracycline	an antibiotic drug that is used for medicine and for research
archae	One of the three domains of living organisms: Archae, Bacteria, and Eukarya
hsv	Herpes Simplex Virus
granum	A stacked portion of the thylakoid membrane in the chloroplast
organelles	the production of specialized proteins and lipids, and the generation of a thick protein envelope just inside the cell membrane
polypeptide	A series of many amino acids linked together by peptide bonds
acetyl-coa	In cellular metabolism, the substance that enters the Kreb's cycle to be further broken down to produce energy
avogadro's number	The number of molecules in a gram molecular weight of any compound (6.023 x 1023).
trans configuration	Arrangement in which each chromosome contains one wild-type (dominant) gene and one mutant (recessive) gene.
saturated fatty acid	A fatty acid containing a fully saturated alkyl chain.
agar	A complex polysaccharide which is widely used as a gelling agent used to prepare solid or semi-solid microbiological medium
protein subunit	One of the components or monomers of a multicomponent protein.
peptide bond	Chemical bond between the carbonyl group of one amino acid and the amino group of a second amino acid—a special form of amide linkage
glycation	A non-enzymatic reaction that adds a carbohydrate group to a protein or peptide.
peripheral proteins	are not embedded in the lipid bilayer at all
isomers	Molecules that are formed from the same atoms in the same chemical linkages but have different three-dimensional conformations
lower margin	of tegmina (Thomas), is the costal or anterior margin of other authors.
chomosome painting	The identification of chromosomes using combinatorially labeled fluorescent chromosomal probes in a wide array of colors
trihybrid cross	A cross between two individuals that differ in three characteristics (AA BB CC X aa bb cc); also refers to a cross between two individuals that are both heterozygous at three loci (Aa Bb Cc X Aa Bb Cc).
island arc	n
piezoelectric	A material capable of transducing mechanical output to electrical signals or, alternatively, electrical signals to mechanical output
molecular clock	An evolutionary timing method based on the observation that at least some regions of genomes evolve at constant rates.
oviducts	Tube from the ovary to the uterus
cyclic photophosphorylation	Formation of ATP when light energy is used to move electrons cyclically through an electron transport chain during photosynthesis.
soma	See nerve cell body.
lepidoptera	Insects such as butterflies and moths.
t cell receptor	The antigen-specific receptor on the surface of T lymphocytes.
chemical equation	representation of a chemical reaction using chemical formulas
partial pressure	A measure of the concentration of one gas in a mixture of gases; the pressure exerted by a particular gas in a mixture of gases (for instance, the pressure exerted by oxygen in air).
hexose	A simple sugar with a backbone containing six carbon atoms
http://huntington-study-group.org/]	http://huntington-study-group.org/]
oligosaccharide	Short linear or branched chain of covalently linked sugars (see Panel 2–4, pp
neocortex	In the mammalian brain, the outermost region of the cerebral cortex.
entozoa	those animals that live within the body of others.
phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate	(PtdIns3P)
secondary structure	Regular local folding pattern of a polymeric molecule
scrotiform	purse-shaped.
herbicide	a substance which kills plants.
short-day plant	A plant that flowers, usually in late summer, fall, or winter, only when the light period is shorter than a critical length.
conditional probability	Probability of occurrence of one event given that another event has occur.
calorie	Unit of heat
drumlin	n
condensed structural formula	chemical formula in which bonds are not drawn out explicitly, but simply understood to contain an appropriate number of bonds
ion	An atom that has gained or lost electrons, thus acquiring a charge.
hyphochytriomycota	Phylum of Chromistan fungi with anteriorly uniflagellate zoospores; hence, hyphochytrid.
anchorage dependence	The requirement to divide, a cell must be attached to the substratum.
uterus	A female organ where eggs are fertilized and/or development of the young occurs.
erythrocyte	Small, hemoglobin-containing blood cell of vertebrates that transports oxygen and carbon dioxide to and from tissues.
effector cell	A cell that carries out the final response or function of a particular process
genus	n
photophosphorylation	Synthesis of high-energy phosphate bonds as ATP, using light energy.
percent	parts per hundred; sometimes abbreviated as pph
immunogenicity	The capacity to elicit an immune response, such as the production of specific antibodies.
antennal organs	in Collembola are sensory structures on the distal segment.
locus	A particular location in the DNA, but not necessarily a gene (plural: loci).
deproteinization	The removal of protein from a sample.
carpals	The bones that make up the wrist joint.
social dominance	A hierarchical pattern of social organization involving domination of some members of a group by other members in a relatively orderly and long-lasting pattern.
aphasia	Partial or complete inability to speak or understand spoken words.
nitrogen cycle	set of chemical pathways whereby nitrogen moves through the biosphere
polymorphism	Two or more alleles existing in a population at a particular locus.
recombination frequency	Proportion of recombinant progeny produced in a cross.
ecosystem services	Functions performed by natural ecosystems that directly or indirectly benefit humans.
heterotroph	In reference to carbon source - an organism that uses reduced, preformed organic molecules as its principal carbon source.Compare with autotroph, lithotroph, organotroph, and phototroph.
ascocarp	A fruiting body containing ascospores.
covalent bond	A stable bond between atoms based on the sharing of electrons.
mammilla	n
carpels	The female reproductive structures of a flower
periodic properties	regular recurrence of certain chemical aspects of atoms that is demonstrated with increasing atomic number
thymus gland	The thymus gland lies at the root of the neck behind the breastbone
squamous cells	Flat cells that constitute the surface of the skin.
matrix	A medium in which things are formed, developed, or embedded.
antimetabolite	A substance that prevents utilization of a metabolite.
halons	compounds similar to CFCs, in which bromine or fluorine atoms replace some or all of the chlorine atoms
dna	"deoxyribonucleic acid"
dorsal glands	see last preceding title.
ionic regulation	The maintenance of a constant or nearly constant concentration of an inorganic ion in the blood plasma regardless of the concentration of that ion in the external environment.
radioactive isotope	An isotopic form of an element with an unstable nucleus that stabilizes itself by emitting ionizing radiation.
oxido-reductase	An enzyme that catalyzes oxidation-reduction reactions.
proprietary database	A copyrighted database accessible by subscription.
acaudal -ate	without a tail.
morula	A solid ball of blastomeres formed by early cleavage.
depurination	Break in the covalent bond connecting a purine base to the 1'-carbon atom of the deoxyribose sugar, resulting in the loss of the purine base
white rot	a wood rot produced by basidiomycetes that can degrade both cellulose and lignin.
gymnosperms	A group of vascular plants with seeds unenclosed in an ovary (naked); mainly cone-bearing trees.
cytokinin	A plant hormone produced in root tissue.
peptide	A description of two linked amino acids.
phytohormone	A plant hormone.
induced fit	A model of enzyme action in which the configurations of both the enzyme and the substrate are altered by substrate binding.
genetic engineering	Common term for recombinant DNA technology.
fatty acid	Any hydrocarbon chain that has a carboxyl group at one end; a major source of energy during metabolism and precursors for synthesis of phospholipids
osmosis	A mechanism that moves water and nutrients into and throughout a plant.
deconvolution	An algorithm-based method for eliminating noise and improving the resolution of digital data
photolithography	A process that utilizes selective masking to generate light patterns that direct chemical transformations within a photosensitive surface.
template	A molecule whose structure is a pattern for the synthesis of a complementary molecule.
glycosylation	The process of adding one or more sugars to a protein or lipid molecule
saponin	A glycosidic surfactant produced by plant cells.
thermophile	An organism that thrives at temperatures above those where life normally can be found
hydrophobic	Preferring not to be in contact with water, as is the case with the hydrocarbon portion of a fatty acid or phospholipid chain.
sorting signal	Amino acid sequence that directs the delivery of a protein to a specific location outside the cytosol.
aglomerular	Lacking a glomerulus.
interspecific interaction	Relationships between species of a community
fmn	Abbreviation for Flavin-mononucleotide.
growth regulator	see plant growth regulator
wax-glands	any glands in any part of the body which secrete a waxy product in either a scale, string or powder: in Coccidae, the circumgenital and parastigmatic glands; q.v.
transduction	(1) In the study of energy, the transformation of one form of energy into another
activation energy	The amount of energy (in joules) required to convert all the molecules in 1 mole of a reacting substance from the ground state to the transition state.
ion	An atom or molecule with an unequal number of protons and electrons
chemogenomics	The integration of genomic, biological activity, and drug molecule data with pharmacology and toxicology information.
streptobacilli	Rods that remain attached in chains after cell division.
aplastic anemia	Decrease in the numbers of all elements in the blood due to the death of their precursor cells in the bone marrow, where the cells usually mature; often associated with drugs which are toxic to these cells.
securiform	triangular-compressed; like the blade of a hatchet.
immune complex disease	A disorder characterized by the presence of immune complexes in bodily fluids.
coleoptile	The covering of the young shoot of the embryo of a grass seed.
nuclease	An enzyme that cleaves phosphodiester bonds of nucleic acids.
neurotoxic	A substance that damages or destroys nerve tissue.
intorted	turned or twisted inwardly.
homologous pair of chromosomes	Two chromosomes that are alike in structure and size and that carry genetic information for the same set of hereditary characteristics
pseudoparenchymatous	describes `tissue' made up of very densely packed fungal hyphae which in mass have come to resemble a perithecial ascoma.
base	Nitrogen-containing base that is one of the three parts of a nucleotide.
blast	Heuristic homology search algorithm
pribnow box	The consensus sequence TATAAT located approximately 10 base pairs upstream from the transcriptional start site.
reformulated gasolines	oxygenated gasolines that also contain a lower percentage of certain more volatile hydrocarbons such as benzene found in nonoxygenated conventional gasoline
tetrabenazine	A dopamine depletor used to treat chorea.
entomophily	Seed plants which are pollinated by insects are said to be entomophilous.
uterus	The female reproductive organ where the fertilized egg implants and the growing embryo is nourished.
host range	Other viruses, such as rabies virus, can infect different species of mammals and are said to have a broad range.
neurological	Having to do with the nervous system and/or nerve cells.
glycan	A polymer consisting of monosaccharides linked together by glycosidic bonds.
adaptation	Change in a organism resulting from natural selection; a structure which is the result of such selection.
class switching	The change from making one class of immunoglobulin (for example IgM) to making another class (for example IgG) that many B cells undergo during the course of an immune response.
signal transduction	Conditions that alter the conformation of a protein which regulates expression of other genes
personate	gaping wide open; masked; disguised.
oxidation potential	The voltage change when an atom or molecule loses an electron.
anabolic	An energy-requiring biochemical process that synthesizes complex molecules from simpler reactants.
homogametic	Containing two copies of one form of the sex chromosomes.
thorax	In insects, the second body region, between the head and thorax
semitropical or gulf strip	is the southern part of the Austro-riparian area extends from Texas to Southern Florida, covers a narrow strip in So
side chain	The part of an amino acid that differs between different amino acids, giving the amino acid its unique physical and chemical properties.
life table	A table of data summarizing mortality in a population.
specialized cells	Cells that are committed to a specific function (e.g., muscles cells, skin cells).
transport vesicles	Small membrane-bounded organelles that carry secretory and membrane proteins in both directions between the rough endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and the Golgi complex, and from the Golgi to the cell surface or other destination
phytoplankton	Tiny, free-floating, photosynthetic organisms in aquatic systems
synthases	Enzymes that catalyze condensation reactions in which no nucleoside triphosphate is required as an energy source.
carcinogenic	A substance that causes cancer
cholesterol	kuh-LEST-uh-rawl/ The most important sterol in animals
community age	One of the factors that helps cause the latitudinal diversity gradient
nucleoside	A compound consisting of a purine or pyrimidine base covalently linked to a pentose.
lipid bilayer	Model for the structure of the cell membrane based on the interaction between the hydrophobic regions of phospholipids.
soluble support	A support for a reaction that is soluble under reaction conditions, but readily separable by some simple process
hydrophobic interactions	The association of nonpolar groups, or compounds, with each other in aqueous systems, driven by the tendency of the surrounding water molecules to seek their most stable (disordered) state.
reproductive cells	egg and sperm cells
carbocation	A positively charged carbon atom; also called a carbonium ion.
opisthogoneate	having the organs of generation at hind end of body.
phosphate	One of the molecular components of a nucleotide; a small molecule made up of phosphorus and oxygen.
brush border	Dense covering of microvilli on the apical surface of epithelial cells in the intestine and kidney
calorie	The amount of heat energy required to raise the temperature of 1 g of water by 1°C; also the amount of heat energy that I g of water releases when it cools by 1°C
paternally	From or related to the father of an individual
acephalous	without a head.
cytochromes	Proteins containing iron-porphyrin (heme) complexes that function as hydrogen or electron carriers in respiration and photosynthesis.
species	In microbiology, a collection of closely related strains sufficiently different from all other strains to be recognized as a distinct unit.
allotropes	two or more forms of the same element that differ in their chemical structure and therefore in their properties
coinheritance frequency	The ratio of recombinants that acquire both the selected and unselected marker vs the total number of recombinants.
tertiary structure	Complex three-dimensional form of a folded polymer chain, especially a protein or RNA molecule.
antagonism	Diminution of activity of one drug by a second one.
catabolic pathway	A metabolic pathway that releases energy by breaking down complex molecules to simpler compounds.
chondrin	CAWN-drin, -druhn/ A gelatinous protein-carbohydrate complex present in cartilage.
monomer	The subunit that serves as the building block of a polymer.
cleidoic egg	Metaphorically, a cleidoic egg is a “locked box” (cleido, “key”) (in contrast to an egg that exchanges nutrients with its surroundings throughout development)
polar	Hydrophilic, or "water-loving"; describing molecules or groups that are soluble in water.
potential energy	energy that is stored
antigeny	opposition or antagonism of the sexes; embracing all forms of secondary sexual diversity.
n-type semiconductor	in which there are freely-moving negative charges, the electrons
valence	The bonding capacity of an atom, generally equal to the number of unpaired electrons in the atom's outermost shell.
stop codon	A UAG, UAA
plasma proteins	The proteins present in blood plasma.
microprocessor	An integrated electronic circuit designed to carry out a specific set of operations.
noncompetitive inhibition	A type of enzyme inhibition not reversed by increasing the substrate concentration.
peptide	A small polymer usually containing fewer than 30 amino acids connected by peptide bonds.
dextrocardia	/decks-troh-KARD-ee-yə/ n
penultimate	next to the last.
invasive	Tending to penetrate healthy tissue.
angstrom	A unit of length equal to 10-10 m.
protein translocator	Membrane-bound protein that mediates the transport of another protein across an organelle membrane.
glycoprotein	a membrane-bound protein which has attached branching carbohydrates
antero	to the front; anteriorly.
l2	One of three hybrid crosses used to detect linkage
frameshift	Since the genetic code is read three bases at a time, if reading begins at either the second or third base of a codon, a faulty product usualy results
broth culture	Microorganisms grown in a liquid medium.
anaplerotic reaction	An enzyme-catalyzed reaction that can replenish the supply of intermediates in the citric acid cycle.
essential amino acid	an amino acid that is required for protein synthesis but that must be obtained from the diet because the body cannot synthesize it
antigen	A foreign substance (usually proteinaceous or high molecular weight polysaccharide) which induces the formation of antibodies
fundamentalism	The belief that creation stories and the many events and rules given in religious documents (for example, the Judeo-Christian Bible, the Moslem Koran) are to be taken literally.
invasion biology	The study of species that become invasive in a system and their impacts on the system they have invaded, as well as the remediation of such invasions.
phytoplankton	Algae and photosynthetic bacteria that drift passively in the peJagic zone of an aquatic environment.
radioactive isotope	An isotope (an atomic form of a chemical element) that is unstable; the nucleus decays spontaneously, giving off detectable particles and energy
age-specific survival rate	Proportion of individuals which survive from the beginning of one age class to the next.
induction	An increase in the expression of a gene in response to a change in the activity of a regulatory protein.
aids-related complex	Prodromal symptoms in patients infected with HIV virus, including lymphadenopathy, fever, weight loss, and malaise.
holoenzyme	An intact enzyme containing all of its subunits and any necessary cofactors with full enzymatic activity.
dna replicase system	The entire complex of enzymes and specialized proteins required in biological DNA replication
transcriptional repressor	A regulatory element that binds a DNA transcription control sequence to repress the transcription of genes.
biosurface	The surface structure of individual molecules, cells, and more complex biological systems.
afb	Acid-fast bacilli.
pruinose	hoary: as if covered with a fine frost or dust.
cellular immunity	Type of immunity resulting from T cells, which recognize antigens found on the surfaces of self cells.
birth control pills	Chemical contraceptives that inhibit ovulation, retard follicular development, or alter a woman's cervical mucus to prevent sperm from entering the uterus.
amplification	In a sequence of enzyme-catalyzed biochemical reactions, an increase in the number of reacting molecules resulting from the fact that one enzyme molecule can catalyze the formation of more than one product molecule.
wilt	A plant disease in which bacteria invade the vessels of herbaceous plants, interfere with movement of water and nutrients, and produce certain toxins that cause wilting and the eventual death of the plant.
polysome	A complex of an mRNA molecule and two or more ribo
disposed	arranged or laid out.
serratulate	with little teeth or serrations.
blastula	An early embryonic form produced by cleavage of a fertilized ovum and usually consisting of a single layer of cells surrounding a fluid-filled spherical cavity.
ligand	Any molecule that binds to a specific site on a protein or other molecule
consensus sequence	A DNA or amino acid sequence consisting of the residues that occur most commonly at each position within a set of similar sequences.
decurrent	closely attached to and running down another body.
determined	In developmental biology, an embryonic cell is said to be determined if it has become committed to a particular specialized path of development
anion	When a salt is dissolved it has two charged molecules: a cation (positively charged) which can behave as an acid and an anion (negatively charged) which can act as a base
checkpoint	Point in the eucaryotic cell-division cycle where progress through the cycle can be halted until conditions are suitable for the cell to proceed to the next stage.
oi	Opportunistic Infection
restriction endonuclease	Enzyme that recognizes and cleaves specific DNA sequence, generating either blunt or single-stranded (sticky) ends.
blue mould	a downy mildew of tobacco, caused by Peronospora tabacina (Peronosporales: Oomycota).
polymer	a naturally occurring or synthetic compound consisting of large molecules made up of a linked series of repeated simple monomers
dimethyl sulfate	/die-METH-əl/ A colorless oily liquid with an onionish aroma
secondary sex characteristic	sex characteristic that appears at puberty.
hiv	The infectious agent that causes AIDS
semicircular	like the half of a circle.
non-permissive conditions	Growth conditions not allowing a conditionally lethal mutant to survive.
hourglass timer	See interval timer.
page	Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis
hemolysis	Lysis of red blood cells.
organ system	Collection of organs which have related roles in an organism's functioning
greenhouse effect	process by which atmospheric gases trap and return a major portion of the heat (infrared radiation) radiated by the Earth
selective permeability	(the ability to allow some sub
animal models	Non-human animals used in laboratories to study the biology of HD, usually having HD genes and related symptoms
picine	black, with a bluish oily lustre.
disperse	To spread widely.
swidden	The generic anthroplogical term for all varieties of slash-and-burn cultivation.
amino acid	An organic molecule possessing both carboxyl and amino groups
molecule	a group of atoms arranged to interact in a particular way; one molecule of any substance is the smallest physical unit of that particular substance.
cohesive ends	See sticky ends.
tundra	A biome at the extreme limits of plant growth; at the northernmost limits, it is called arctic tundra, and at high altitudes, where plant forms are limited to low shrubby or matlike vegetation, it is called alpine tundra.
chemical energy	Potential energy in the bonds between atoms in molecules.
geological strata	A series of layers of sedimentary rock.
chile	Provisionally named Megavirus chilensis, it can be seen with a basic light microscope.
telophase	mitotic stage where nuclear membrane reforms and the spindle fibers disappear.
electrophoresis	The movement of particles in an electrical field
lethal allele	An allele (usually recessive) that causes virtually complete mortality, usually early in development.
nitrogen cycle	The natural circulation of nitrogen between molecular nitrogen in the atmosphere, inorganic molecules in the soil, and organic molecules in living organisms.
doubling time	The time needed for a population to double
monoclonal antibody	Antibody produced by the progeny of a single B cell and thus a homogeneous protein exhibiting a single antigen specificity
inch	the English and American standard of length in insect measurement: it is = 12 lines and = 25.4 mm.: usually expressed in units and hundredths, as 1.01.
anti-glutamate	A property of drugs that prevents nerve cell death by inhibiting glutamate toxicity.
survivorship curve	A plot of the number of members of a cohort that are still alive at each age; one way to represent age-specific mortality.
ancestor	One from whom an individual is descended.
dosage effect	/DOE-səj/ The effect of varying gene copy number; increasing/reducing the number of copies of a gene within a genome can increase/reduce the number of copies of gene product produced, causing changes in physiology and development.
gene	A section of DNA that codes for a specific functional product, such as a protein
caerulescent	with a tinge of sky-blue.
exponential phase	The period of an amplification reaction during which the product accumulates exponentially, approximately doubling with every cycle
aeneous -eus	shining bronze or brassy.
territory	  An area containing a resource that is actively defended by an animal from other animals be they of the same species or in some cases of different species
pelagic	Pelagic organisms swim through the ocean, and may rise to the surface, or sink to the bottom
coated vesicle	Small membrane-bounded organelle with a cage of proteins (the coat) on its cytosolic surface
starch	Any one of a number of polysaccharides produced by plants and other photosynthetic organisms as a means of storing excess carbohydrate
defined medium	see MEDIUM.
mac	Mycobacteriumavium Complex
boc	A symbol for a protecting group used in polypeptide chemistry.
carbon fixation	Process by which green plants incorporate carbon atoms from atmospheric carbon dioxide into sugars
ribozyme	An RNA molecule that serves as an enzyme
karyotype	A method of organizing the chromosomes of a cell in relation to number, size, and type.
dna polymerases	Enzymes that polymerize deoxyribonucleotides onto an existing polynucleotide chain using the complementary strand of DNA as a template.
enzyme	A moleucle, most often a protein, that contains a catalytic site for a biochemical reaction.
family	A taxonomic grouping of related, similar genera; the category below order and above genus.
cellulose	A structural polysaccharide of cell walls, consisting of glucose monomers joined by Beta-1, 4-Glycosidic linkages
volcanic	adj
expansio alarum	the wing stretch; see expanse.
aspirin	A compound that is part of a group of drugs called salicylates
genotype	A specific description of the genetic constitution of an organism
adaptive zone	The way of life or functional role of an organism as seen from an evolutionary point of view
ravenous	greedy; voracious; hungrily.
ascites	Effusion of serous fluid into the abdominal cavity (schistosomiasis).
aquamarine -us	sea green: pale green with predominant blue and a little gray [nile green].
rhizoplane	Plant root surfaces and usually strongly adhering soil particles.
agglutination	The sticking together of insoluble antigens such as bacteria, viruses, or erythrocytes caused by a specific antibody
linkage map	A map of the relative positions of genetic 
blight	a general name for many diseases of plants esp
mycology	the study of fungi.
nitrogen cycle	The passage of nitrogen through various valence states, as the result of reactions carried out by a wide variety of different organisms.
population	Group of individuals sharing a gene pool.
biosynthesis	Synthesis by a living system.
base	compound that releases hydroxide ions in solution.
mutualism	  A type of symbiotic relationship where both partners benefit
extraneural	Outside of the nervous system.
amplification	The strengthening of stimulus energy that is otherwise too weak to be carried into the nervous system.
pons	Portion of the brain that participates in certain automatic, homeostatic functions, such as regulating the breathing centers in the medulla.
plasmolysed	term used to describe a plant cell whose contents have shrunk due to the loss of water by osmosis.
rutilous	a shining bronze red.
imperfect fungus	See deuteromycete.
depilate	/DEP-ə-late/ v
coisogenic strains	KOH-ice-uh-GEN-ik/ Nearly identical strains differing at only a single locus
dictyospores	spores which are dictyoseptate  or muriform (q.v.).
pteridosperm	An extinct group of seed plants which bore fern-like leaves.
prokaryote	A unicellular organism that contains a single chromosome, no nucleus, no membrane-bound organelles, and has characteristic ribosomes and biochemistry.
degradative pathway	Any of the stepwise series of metabolic reactions that break down organic compounds
chemosynthetic	Applied to autotrophic bacteria that use the energy released by specific inorganic reactions to power their life processes, including the synthesis of organic molecules.
co-factor	A type of molecule that helps enzymes carry out chemical reactions.
wobble	A proposed explanation for base pairing that is not of the Watson-Crick type and that often occurs between the 3' base in the codon and the 5' base in the anticodon.
fc receptor	One of a family of receptors specific for the invariant constant region (Fc region) of immunoglobulins (other than IgM and IgD); different Fc receptors are specific for IgG, IgA, IgE and their subclasses.
shuttle vector	A vector that can replicate in the cells of more than one organism (e.g
isozymes	Multiple forms of an enzyme that differ from one another in one or more of the properties.
thermoplastic polymer	plastics that can be melted and reshaped over and over again
catalyst	A chemical agent that changes the rate of a reaction without being consumed by the reaction.
cyclic gmp	Small soluble intracellular signaling molecule formed from GTP by the enzyme guanylyl cyclase in response to photoreceptor stimulation in the retina.
residue	In biochemistry, the modified form assumed by a small molecule when it is incorporated by covalent bonding into a larger molecule
mycorrhizae	Mutualistic associations of plant roots and fungi.
aorta	the anterior, narrow part of the heart, opening into the head.
osmosis	Net movement of water across a semipermeable membrane from a solution of lesser to one of greater solute concentration
cholesterol	A type of sterols occurring widely in animal tissues as well as in some higher plants and algae
omnivore	Literally, an organism that will eat anything
endemic species	Species that are confined to a specific, relatively small geographic area.
kinase	An enzyme that transfers phosphate from ATP to another molecule.
imine	A molecule containing a nitrogen atom attached to a carbon atom by a double bond
test	n
rejuvenescence	a renewal of youth; bringing back to a condition of youth.
cholera	CALL-er-uh/ An acute infectious form of gastroenteritis caused by endotoxin-producing strains of the bacterium Vibrio cholerae
group selection	The differential rate of origination or extinction of whole populations (or species, if the term is used broadly) on the basis of differences among them in one or more characteristics.
active immunity	The natural immunological response to an antigen.
autoimmune disease	An immunological disorder in which the immune system turns against self.
ovum	see egg
hydrogen bond	a type of weak chemical bond formed when the slightly positive hydrogen atom of a polar covalent bond in one molecules is attracted to the slightly negative atom of a polar covalent in another bond
banded iron formation	n
rhizosphere	the layer of soil surrounding the root, typically containing a rich community of microorganisms
immunoglobulin	An antibody protein generated against, and capable of binding specifically to, an antigen.
active sites	Chemically stable crevice in an enzyme where substrates bind and a reaction can be catalyzes repeatedly.
basic	Having the properties of a base.
optic nerve	A collection of nerve cells that project visual information from the eyes to the lateral geniculate nucleus.
pharmacological	pharmacological research involves studing how chemicals interact with living organisms
neutral ph	The pH of pure water
carcinogen	A chemical that can cause cancer.
autosome	A chromosome that is not a sex chromosome.
microspotting	A contact-based transfer method that utilizes pins or capillaries to deposit biomolecules on a solid surface.
electron	A subatomic particle with a single negative charge
risk_factor	that which causes an individual or group of individuals to have an increased risk of a condition or disease
achlorophyllous	Lacking chlorophyll and thus non-green.
phospholipid	The main category of lipid molecules used to construct biological membranes
peptide mapping	Same as fingerprinting.
tuber	An underground stem which has been modified for storage of nutrients, such as a potato.
substrate	molecule (or molecules) being acted on, often catalytically by an enzyme
orthopnea	The inability to breathe easily in a flat body position.
direct fitness	Reproductive success through one.s own offspring.
karyotype	A photomicrograph of size-ordered, banded chromosomes that enables low-resolution physical mapping of features.
hypertension	High blood pressure.
activity	The true thermodynamic activity or potential of a substance, as distinct from its molar concentration.
protoplast	Single plant cell minus its cell wall.
homochronic heredity	inheritance at corresponding periods of life.
third filial generation	Progeny resulting from the crossing of two second filial, F2, generation individuals.
indirect measurement	A measurement procedure that quantifies a property by measuring something other than what the definition of the property specifies
prosthetic group	A nonpeptide organic molecule or metal ion that binds tightly and specifically with a protein and is required for its activity, such as heme in hemoglobin
tgf-β superfamily	see transforming growth factor-β superfamily
high-content screening	Simultaneous multiparametric analysis of complex systems, such as living cells.
ring	see PARTIAL VEIL.
antipyretics	Fever-reducing agents such as aspirin, acetaminophen, or ibuprofen.
pattern formation	The ordering of cells into specific three-dimensional structures, an essential part of shaping an organism and its individual parts during development.
glycolipid	Membrane lipid molecule with a sugar residue or oligosaccharide attached to the polar headgroup
periodic breathing	See also intermittent breathing.
cleave	Chop up.
dutpase	An enzyme which degrades dUTP to prevent the incorpation of dU into DNA.
limbic system	A group of brain structures and their connections with each other as well as their connections with the hypothalamus and other areas
systemic circuit	In a circulatory system, the blood vessels that take blood to and from the systemic tissues.
empirical	Based on data rather than merely reasoning.
solution-phase synthesis	Liquid-phase combinatorial chemical synthesis techniques for the creation of libraries of diverse compounds.
tropical rainforest	A terrestrial biome characterized by high levels of precipitation and warm temperatures year-round.
polynucleotide	A polymer consisting of many nucleotide monomers; serves as a blueprint for proteins and, through the actions of proteins, for all cellular activities
cover slip	A small, thin piece of glass used to cover a specimen on a microscope slide.
operator	The DNA sequence where a repressor protein reversibly binds to regulate the activity of one or more closely linked structural genes.
epupillate	an ocellate spot included by a colored ring, but destitute of a pupil or central spot.
cell-free translation system	A cell extract containing all the components required for protem synthesis (i.e
1st law of thermodynamics	The principle of conservation of energy
pedigerous	feet bearing.
positive assortative mating	Mating between like individuals that is more frequent than would be expected on the basis of chance.
kelp forest	Marine ecosystem dominated by large kelps
multidimensional nmr	Three- and four-dimensional NMR methods for the detailed characterization of protein structure.
stress response	The response of an animal to a threatening situation
callous	see callosity.
tortulose-us	hump-backed; a surface with a few large elevations: beaded; moniliform.
p. generation	The parent individuals from which offspring are derived in studies of inheritance; P stands for parental.
geological time scale	A time scale established by geologists that reflects a consistent sequence of historical periods, grouped into four eras: Precambrian, Paleozoic, Mesozoic, and Cenozoic.
blue-light photoreceptors	A class of light receptors in plants
mobilizable plasmid	A plasmid that is not self-transmissible byt can be co-transferred with a self-transmissible plasmid, either independantly or as a cointegrate.
nucleus	minuscule but highly dense region at the center of an atom that is composed of protons and neutrons
transposase	An enzyme (or enzyme complex) required for the transposition of a particular transposable element
mrna	Messenger RNA
isoform	One of several forms of the same protein whose amino acid sequences differ slightly but whose general activity is identical.
solvent	dissolving agent of a solution
amphiesma	The outer covering of a dinoflagellate, consisting of several membrane layers.
yeast episomal plasmid	A yeast vector carrying the 2 µm circle origin of replication.
fecundity rate	Average number of same-sexed offspring produced by an individual in a specific age class.
regression	reduction in the size of a single tumor or reduction in the number and/or size of several tumors
lower austral zone	occupies southern part of United States from Chesapeake Bay to the great interior valley of California
allergy	A hypersensitive condition acquired by exposure to a particular allergen (helminth infections; house dust mite or ectoparasite bites or stings).
hypertonic	In comparing two solutions, referring to the one with a greater solute concentration.
dependent variable	A measurable characteristic who's value is conditioned on the value of a second variable (the independent variable) and who's value may be predicted from the relationship with the independent variable.
membrane protein	Protein that is normally closely associated with a cell membrane
clast	n
gonorrhea	An acute infectious sexually transmitted disease of the mucous membranes of the genitourinary tract, eye, rectum and throat
activation energy	The energy that must be possessed by atoms or molecules in order to react.
kilocalorie	Unit of heat energy equal to 1000 calories
interbedded	adj
stromatolites	Laminated microbial mats, typically built from layers of filamentous and other microorganisms which can become fossilized.
primosome	A multiprotein complex that catalyzes synthesis of RNA primer at various points along the DNA template.
redox reaction	A reaction in which one component becomes oxidized and the other reduced; an oxidation-reduction reaction.
lsd	LYSERGIC ACID DIETHYLAMIDE, a powerful hallucinogen derived from Claviceps sclerotia.
altruism	Conferral of a benefit on other individuals at an apparent cost to the donor.
lethargic	torpid or inactive.
ingest	to obtain food by engulfing it (as opposed to absorbing, which is what fungi do) (see PHAGOTROPHIC).
r-strategy	Ecological strategy where organisms rely on high reproductive rates for continued survival within the community
cartilaginous	kart-uh-LAJ-uh-nuhs/ Composed of cartilage.
titer	Measure of antibody quantity.
reaction intermediate	Any chemical species in a reaction pathway that has a finite chemical lifetime.
biological containment	One of the precautionary measures taken to prevent the replication of recombinant DNA molecules in microorganisms in the natural environment
turritus	towering: a surface rising cone-like.
high-throughput method	An analytical method that is carried out by computer programs and robots without much direct human attention, and thus can process samples at a relatively high rate.
radiometric dating	A method paleontologists use for determining the ages of rocks and fossils on a scale of absolute time, based on the half-life of radioactive isotopes.
velutinous	velvety: clothed with dense, soft, short hair, like velvet.
auxotrophic mutant	A mutant organism defective in the synthesis of a given biomolecule, which must therefore be supplied for the organism's growth.
rickettsias	Obligate intracellular parasites which cause a variety of disease, including typhus and Rocky Mountain spotted fever.
gtpase-activating protein	Protein that binds to a GTP-binding protein and inactivates it by stimulating its GTPase activity so that it hydrolyzes its bound GTP to GDP.
tissue microarrays	Arrays consisting of tissue specimen cores.
scrotum	A pouch of skin outside the abdomen that houses a testis; functions in cooling sperm, thereby keeping them viable.
macroevolution	Evolution of taxa higher than the species level (for example, genera, families, orders, classes), commonly entailing major morphological changes
viscous	thick, sticky or semi-fluid.
levorotatory isomer	A stereoisomer that rotates the plane of plane-polarized light counterclockwise.
metastasis	The spread of cancer cells to locations distant from their original site.
minimal medium	A defined medium that provides only the minimum number of different nutrients needed for growth of a particular bacterium.
molecular biology	The interpretation of biological events in terms of the physics and chemistry of molecules within cells.
semicoronet	a margin of spines or hooks partly surrounding a structure or process.
light dependent reactions	The first steps in photosynthesis in which light energy is captured and then converted to ATP and NADPH
essential amino acids	Amino acids that cannot be synthesized by humans (and other vertebrates) and must be obtained from the diet.
leucine zipper	A structural motif characteristic of DNA-binding proteins consisting of a protein dimer formed by two interacting a helices from separate proteins.
organic compound	compound that contains mainly carbon and hydrogen
pre-apical	before the apex.
lock-and-key theory	idea that substrate and enzyme molecules fit together in a precise and a specific way.
spatial structure	The condition in which the individuals in a species are not uniformly distributed in space.
endothermic	"Warm-blooded": a body temperature maintained by internal physiological mechanisms at a level independent of the ambient (environmental) temperature.
meiosis	Process in which diploid cells undergo division to form haploid sex cells.
rflp	See Restriction fragment length polymorphism.
recessive allele	a gene that is expressed only when its counterpart allele on the matching chromosome is also recessive (not dominant)
sporocarps	discrete aggregation of spores of some arbuscular-mycorrhizal fungi formed in or on the soil.
apterodicera	wingless, with two antennae.
reduction potential	The inherent tendency of a compound to act as an electron donor or an electron acceptor
cation	A positively charged ion.
commensalism	An association between organisms of different species in which one species is benefited by the relationship but the other species is not significantly affected.
aplastic	Incomplete growth or development of a structure.
peptide bond	A bond between the amino end of one amino acid and the carboxyl end of the next amino acid
liter	volume occupied by 1000 g of water at 4 °C
heuristic	A method based on empirical information that has no explicit rationalization.
numerical taxonomy	The groupig by numerical methods of taxonomic units into taxa based on their character states.
titration curve	A plot of the pH versus the equivalents of base added during titration of an acid.
pedigree	A family lineage, or a chart of a family lineage that follows the inheritance of a particular trait.
hydroxyl radical	A free radical.
tca cycle	See tricarboxylic acid cycle.
inhabitational	One organisms living wholly or partly inside the other.
km	See Michaelis constant.
spectrophotometer	An instrument that measures the proportions of light of different wavelengths absorbed and transmitted by a pigment solution.
panthalassic ocean	n
nigricans	black, tinged with gray.
heterosporous	Producing two different sizes or kinds of spores
abrupt	suddenly or without gradation.
crispate -us	with a wrinkled or fluted margin.
metamerism	Division of the body into segments; in insects, for example.
osmotic pressure	The pressure generated by the mass flow of water to that side of a membrane-bounded structure that contains the higher concentration of solute molecules
self-complementary	A single strand of DNA that curls back onto itself is described as self-complementary.
gene flow	The loss or gain of alleles from a population due to the emigration or immigration of fertile individuals, or the transfer of gametes, between populations.
coprolites	KAWP-ruh-lites/ Pieces of fossilized excrement
hudsonian zone	is that part of the boreal region comprising the northern part of the great transcontinental coniferous forests
tropics	Latitudes between 23.50 north and south.
fragile site	Constriction or gap that appears at a particular location on a chromosome when cells are cultured under special conditions
jelly fungi	wood-inhabiting basidiomycetes with gelatinous basidiomata; Orders: Tremellales, Auriculariales (Phragmobasidiomycetes); Dacrymycetales (Holobasidiomycetes).
heremetabola	with slight or incomplete metamorphosis, but with a resting stage at the end of the nymph life; specifically the Cicadidae.
net primary production	In a community or an ecosystem, the increase in the amount of plant or algal material between the beginning and end of a specified time period, such as a growing season.
bivalent	A duplicated chromosome paired with its homologous duplicated chromosome at the beginning of meiosis.
critical micelle concentration	The lowest concentration of a detergent at which molecules aggregate to form micellar structures.
serum	Fluid portion of blood remaining after the blood cells and materials responsible for clotting are removed.
stratosphere	The second layer of Earth's atmosphere, above the troposphere and below the mesosphere.
density dependence	The performance of individuals in a population depends on how many individuals are in that population.
fomite	An inanimate object which, when contaminated with a viable pathogen, can transfer the pathogen to a host.
effluvium	a foul or unpleasant smell or emanation.
heterotropic enzyme	An allosteric enzyme requiring a modulator other than its substrate.
drosophila melanogaster	Species of small fly, commonly called a fruit fly, much used in genetic studies of development.
connective tissue	Connective tissue is the material inside your body that supports many of its parts
determinate	with well-defined outlines or distinct limits: fixed: marked out.
affinity chromatography	A method of separating biochemical components based on specific interactions between the components of the biochemical mixture and other molecules (e.g., antigen-antibody or receptor-ligand).
parental investment	Parental provision of resources to offspring that increase the offspring's reproductive success at a cost of further reproductive success of the parents.
radioactive suicide	The death of cells due to incorporation of a radioactive substrate with high specific activity
alkene	Straight chain or branched organic structure that contains at least one double bond.
mesophilic	describes organisms which grow at temperatures between 10-40C (opt
k+ leak channel	A K+-transporting ion channel in the plasma membrane of animals cells that remains open even in a “resting” cell.
reproduction	production of new individuals.
carbonyl group	Pair of atoms consisting of a carbon atom linked to an oxygen atom by a double bond (C=O).
lead compound	A chemical compound that is considered the most likely to become an effective therapeutic treatment.
lithotroph	A microorganism that synthesizes all organic molecules from inorganic sources.
old field	Lands that are cultivated or grazed and them abandoned.
biomass	the total mass (amount) of living organism(s) in a particular area or volume.
covalent bond	Stable chemical link between two atoms produced by sharing one or more pairs of electrons.
macroevolution	Evolutionary change on a grand scale, encompassing the origin of novel designs, evolutionary trends, adaptive radiation, and mass extinction.
diurnal	An animal who is active during the day and sleeps at night.
combinatorial library	A combinatorial library is a set of compounds prepared by combinatorial synthesis.
sensory pittings	deep pits or punctures through the surface, which may or may not bear pegs, bristles or seta, and may be open or covered by a membrane; serving as organs of perception for sounds or smells.
cuticle	the outer skin or skin layer.
benign tumor	An abnormal mass of tissue that replicates uncontrollably, but will not spread to other tissues.
conservative transposition	A transposition event where the transposable element is lost from its original location and inserted at a new location.
lamelliform	made up of or resembling leaves, blades or lamellae.
adhesion	the attractions between different kinds of molecules
genetic drift	A change of gene frequencies within a population over time.
adaptor protein	General term for proteins in intracellular signaling pathways that link different proteins in the pathway directly together.
linking number	The number of times one closed circular DNA strand is wound about another; the number of topological links holding the circles together.
chromosome duplication	Mutation that doubles a segment of a chromosome.
trace fossil	Evidence left by organisms, such as burrows, imprints, coprolites, or footprints
photopsin	One of a family of visual pigments in the cones of the vertebrate eye that absorb bright, colored light.
stabilizing selection	Selection favoring the intermediate phenotype or individuals near an optimum level of performance rather than at either extreme.
reactive nitrogen	compounds of nitrogen that are biologically active, chemically active, or active with light in our atmosphere
biome	An ecological community of organisms and environments.
anemia	A low number of red blood cells or low level of hemoglobin; may be caused by dietary deficiencies, metabolic disorders, hereditary conditions, or damaged bone marrow.
respiratory chain	The respiratory chain is composed of mitochondrial complexes that transfer electrons from one complex to another, eventually resulting in the formation of ATP
immunoglobulin	An antibody molecule
homoduplex	A molecule of double-stranded nucleic acid where the two strands have exactly complementary base sequences.
microevolution	Evolutionary changes of the kinds usually responsible for causing differences between populations of a species (for example, gene frequency changes and chromosornal variations)
pectinato-fimbriate	having pectinations that are fringed with hair.
juvenile form	Another term for juvenile HD.
pseudo-coel	a false hollow; a hollow which does not form a tube.
recruitment	The process of progressively increasing the tension of a muscle by activating more and more of the motor neurons controlling the muscle.
computer-assisted molecular modeling	Computational techniques for the exploration and visualization of molecular structures and properties.
diverse	unequal: differing in size or shape: of various kinds.
calcitonin	A hormone secreted by the thyroid gland that lowers blood calcium levels by promoting calcium deposition in bone and calcium excretion from the kidneys.
cam kinase	see Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase
beta sheet	A planar secondary structure of proteins that is created by hydrogen bonding between the backbone atoms in two different polypeptide chains or segments of a single folded chain
uv irradiation	Electromagnetic radiation with a wavelength shorter than that of visible light (200-390 nm)
affinity	A measure of the binding strength between two molecules.
disposition	See Drug disposition.
vascular	Refers to a network of tubes which distribute nutrients and remove wates from the tissues of the body
mapping population	An experimental population constructed by crossing, designed for the production of a genetic map.
photohetrotroph	An organism using light as a source of energy and organic materials as carbon source.
interallelic interaction	Interaction of alleles at different loci to produce a phenotype.
oligodendrocyte	A type of ensheathing glial cell (non-neuron cell) in the vertebrate central nervous system.
half-life	The time required to reduce something by one-half; applies, for example, to the concentrations of substances such as hormones, stored voltages, and radioactivity.
entad	extending inwardly from without.
antigen	Any foreign substance (self - non-self discrimination), such as virus, bacterium, or protein
aminoglycosides	Group of related antibiotics including streptomycin, kanamycin, neomycin, tobramycin, gentamicin, and amikacin.
amber	Fossilization where the organism is entrapped in resin and preserved whole.
endophytic	living within plant or tree tissue, as borers or miners.
cyclin	A protein
principle of allocation	The concept that each organism has an energy budget, or a limited amount of total energy available for all of its maintenance and reproductive needs.
obpyriform	inversely pearshaped.
wood	A secondary tissue found in seed plants which consists largely of xylem tissue.
vermiculate	worm-like in form: a marking with wormlike tracings.
cyclic electron flow	In chloroplasts, the light-induced flow of electrons originating from and returning to photosystem I.
pyridine nucleotide	A nucleotide coenzyme containing the pyridine derivative nicotinamide; NAD or NADP.
chemoorganotroph	An organism which obtains its energy from the oxidation of organic compounds.
adult	The mature stage of an organism, usually recognized by the organism's attaining the ability to reproduce.
catastrophism	The eighteenth- and nineteenth-century concept that fossilized organisms and changes in geological strata were produced by periodic, violent, and widespread catastrophic events (presumably caused by capricious supernatural forces) rather than by naturally explainable events based on laws that act uniformly through time
dura mater	/D(Y)ER-ə MADE-er/ The tough, fibrous outer membranous sheath of the brain and spinal cord.
reactants	Substance that enters a reaction
genotypic value	The phenotype produced by a given genotype averaged across environments.
cytidine triphosphate	SIGHT-uh-deen/ Cytidine with an added triphosphate; in metabolic processes cytidine triphosphate is used as a source of energy in the same way as ATP, but its role is more specific than that of ATP, because it does not participate in as wide a variety of processes.
biofilm	Microbial colonies encased in an adhesive, usually polysaccharide material, and attached to a surface.
natural killer cell	A type of white blood cell that can kill tumor cells and virusinfected cells; an important component of innate immunity.
cofactor	essential for the oxidation of alpha-keto acids, such as pyruvate, in metabolism.
sagittal	equivalent to longitudinal.
haploid cell	Cells containing only one set of chromosomes.
lipid-soluble	Capable of dissolving in substances made of compounds known as lipids
reverse micelle	The structure formed by amphipathic molecules in a nonpolar solvent
cell-mediated immunity	The immune response mediated by T lymphocytes
spongioplasm	the net-like structure of protoplasm in a cell.
neurodegenerative	Characterized by neurodegeneration
tautomeric shift	A reversible change in the position of a hydrogen atom in a molecule which results in the conversion of the molecule between different isomers
acicular	Needle-shape.
mixotroph	An organism able to assimilate organic compounds as carbon sources while using inorganic compounds as electron donors
matsu-take	Tricholoma matsutake; an important edible fungus in Japan; grows in ectomycorrhizal association with pines
transgenic	An organism that has had DNA from another organism introduced into it
microfluidics	Lab-on-a-chip technology based on the transport of nanoliter or picoliter volumes of fluids through microchannels within a glass or plastic chip
methionine	An amino acid that must be obtained through the diet because it cannot be produced by humans.
central vacuole	A membranous sac in a mature plant cell with diverse roles in reproduction, growth, and development.
isoelectric point or ph	The pH at which a protein has no net charge.
checkpoint	A key transition point at which progression to the next stage in the cell cycle is regulated.
facultative anaerobe	An organism that makes ATP by aerobic respiration if oxygen is present but that switches to fermentation under anaerobic conditions
partial pressures	The concentration of gases; a fraction of total pressure.
extensible markup language	A set of specifications for formatting web documents that allows the creation of custom data tags that enable flexible transmission of data between applications and servers.
photosystem	A series of pigments called antenna pigments and with a chlorophyll molecule that absorb light which boosts electrons to a high energy level where they can be picked up by an electron acceptor as part of the light dependent reactions of photosynthesis.
anaerobic glycolysis	The reactions that convert glucose to lactic acid.
aristiform	of the form or appearance of an arista.
dendritic	Branching in a way that resembles the branching of a tree
inflorescence	A group of flowers tightly clustered together.
chlorination	A highly effective disinfectant procedure for drinking water using chlorine gas or other chlorine-containing compounds as disinfectant.
green fluorescent protein	A protein produced by jellyfish that glows when viewed under a specific wavelength of light
peripheral proteins	Proteins that are loosely or reversibly bound to a membrane by hydrogen bonds or electrostatic forces; generally water-soluble once released from the membrane.
endangered species	A species that is likely to become extinct in all or a major portion of its range.
deterministic	Causing a fixed outcome, given initial conditions.
dna polymerase	An enzyme used to make new copies of DNA during replication.
diversifying selection	See disruptive selection.
epitope	The part of an antigen molecule that binds to an antibody; also called antigenic determinant.
siv	Simian Immunodeficiency Virus
vagina	External canal of the female reproductive system attached to the cervix.
multimer	A molecular aggregate held together by noncovalent bonds.
plankton	free-floating aquatic organisms; usually microscopic; form the base of all aquatic food webs (including that of the oceans).
outgroup	In a cladistic analysis, any taxon used to help resolve the polarity of characters, and which is hypothesized to be less closely related to each of the taxa under consideration than any are to each other.
ab	off; away from.
transcription unit	A region in DNA, bounded by an initiation (start) site and termination site, that is transcribed into a single primary transcript.
pelagic zone	The area of the ocean past the continental shelf, with areas of open water often reaching to very great depths.
cordiform	= cordate.
ldl	called "bad" lipoprotein because it is less effective than HDL in transporting cholesterol through the blood
thivoflavine s	A compound that is believed to both decrease the presence of beta-amyloid fibrils, and decrease huntingtin protein aggregation.
mantle	That portion of the interior of the Earth that lies between the crust and the core.
cilia	SILL-ee-uh/ (sing cilium /SILL-ee-uhm/) (1) eyelashes; (2) tiny hairlike processes covering certain internal surfaces of the body such as the epithelial surfaces of the respiratory tract or the internal lining of the inner ear; (3) hairlike processes found on certain cells and microorganisms.
ohl	Oral Hairy Leukoplakia
photoautotroph	An organism that can obtain the energy it needs to stay alive from photons; an organism capable of photosynthesis.
significant figure	a number that correctly represents the accuracy with which an experimental quantity is known
scanning electron microscope	n
archaea	An evolutionarily distinct group (domain) of prokayrotes consisting of the methanogens, most extreme halophiles and hyperthermophiles, and Thermoplasma.
circiter	about, or round-about.
taxon	n
michaelis constant	See Km.
creationism	The belief that each different kind of organism was individually created by one or more supernatural beings whose activities are not controlled by known physical, chemical, or biological laws
biocombinatorial chemistry	An iterative process consisting of synthesis of combinatorial chemical libraries followed by screening in biological systems to evaluate function.
phoronids	A tube-dwelling marine lophophorate.
phosphoglycerate	A three carbon intermediate important in the Calvin-Benson cycle in the part of the cycle leading to the production of PGAL.
coefficient of relatedness	The proportion of genes identical by descent (IBD) among two individuals I and J.
basal ganglia	A group of nerve cells located at the base of the brain
groundwater	water pumped from wells that have been drilled into underground aquifers
cytoplasmic division	process following nuclear division that completes cell division
cell-mediated immunity	An immune response generated by the activities of non-antibody-producing cells such as T cells
gluconeogenesis	The synthesis of glucose.
proteoglycan	A hybrid macromolecule consisting of a heteropolysaccharide joined to a polypeptide; the polysaccharide is the major component.
false positive	A test result that wrongly shows an effect to be present.
metastasis	Spread of cancer cells from their site of origin to other sites in the body.
mass number	The sum of the number of protons and neutrons in an atom's nucleus.
exponential population growth	Unlimited growth of a population in an unlimited environment
pharynx	An area in the vertebrate throat where air and food passages cross; in flatworms, the muscular tube that protrudes from the ventral side of the worm and ends in the mouth.
geographic isolation	The separation between populations caused by geographic distance or geographic barriers.
amino acid	one of twenty types of building block that make up protein molecules.
complexity	The study of complex phenomena in natural systems
blowing agent	either a gas or a substance capable of producing a gas used to manufacture a foamed plastic
reduction	Addition of electrons or hydrogen atoms to a molecule.
oxygenic photosynthesis	Use of light energy to synthesize ATP and NADPH by noncyclic photophosphorylation with the production of oxygen from water.
replication	Synthesis of a daughter duplex DNA molecule identical to the parental duplex DNA.
snornp	Abbreviation for Small Nucleolar Ribonucleoprotein.
coccidioidomycosis	deep-seated mycosis caused by Coccidioides immitis (Hyphomycetes); common in dry S.W
glucose	fuel food containing chemical energy.
congested	heaped together; crowded: distended.
arcuato-emarginate	with a bow-like or curved excision.
photoreduction	The light-induced reduction of an electron acceptor in photosynthetic cells.
incomplete dominance	inheritance in which an active allele does not entirely compensate for an inactive allele.
endodermis	Literally "inner skin", this is a layer of cells which surrounds the central core of vascular tissue, and which helps to regulate the flow of water and dissolved substances.
fauna	the assemblage of animals inhabiting a region or country.
spherule	a minute sphere or globule.
positive negative selection	A laboratory technique that accelerates the identification of genetically engineered organisms that possess desired genetic changes by selecting against the organisms that do not have the desired characteristics.
fibroblast	A type of cell in loose connective tissue that secretes the protein ingredients of the extracellular fibers
absconditus	hidden, concealed; retracted into another.
ambrosia fungi	symbiotic wood-inhabiting fungi associated with wood-wasps and wood-inhabiting beetles; the fungi feed the larvae, and are dispersed by the adults.
apoprotein	The protein component of a conjugated protein.
mantle cavity	In molluscs, an external body cavity formed where a sheetlike outfolding of the dorsal body wall, the mantle, overhangs or surrounds all or part of the rest of the body
interstice -tium	space between two lines, whether striate or punctate.
adhesion belt	Beltlike adherens junction that encircles the apical end of an epithelial cell and attaches it to the adjoining cell
endergonic	An energy-requiring reaction.
potential energy	A object's capcity to do work owing to its position in space or the arrangement of its parts.
hyperthermia	The state of having a body temperature that is higher than the temperature considered to be normal or usual.
disulfide bridge	A strong covalent bond formed when the sulfur of one cysteine monomer bonds to the sulfur of another cysteine monomer.
peripheral neuropathy	Damage to the nerve cells that supply sensation to the arms and legs.
steroid	Any tetracyclic hydrocarbons which is derived from perhydrocyclopentanophenanthrenea
audition	Hearing; sound detection and perception.
oogonia	Ovary-specific stem cells.
cryptochrome	Flavoprotein responsive to blue light, found in both plants and animals
thermodynamics	(1) The study of energy transformations that occur in a collection of matter
nitrogen fixation	The reduction of atmospheric nitrogen (N2) to NH3.
member	any one of the external appendages.
gel flltration	A chromatographic procedure for the separation of a mixture of molecules on the basis of size; based on the capacity of porous polymers to exclude solutes above a certain size.
hexose	A sugar with a six-carbon backbone.
tricarboxylic acid cycle	See citric acid cycle.
allantois	One of four extraembryonic membranes; serves as a repository for the embryo's nitrogenous waste.
basad	in the direction of or toward the base.
delamination	the splitting or division into layers.
nuclear lamina	Fibrous meshwork of proteins on the inner surface of the inner nuclear membrane
cytochrome c	A molecule released by the mitochondria in response to membrane aggravation
nonparametric analysis	Analysis widely used for studying populations that take on a ranked order (such as movie reviews receiving one to four stars)
equilibrium	An unchanging condition, as of population size or genetic composition
isoelectric point	The pH of a solution at which a dissolved protein or other potentially charged molecule has a net charge of zero and therefore does not move in an electric field.
compatible solute	An organic compounds which serve as cytoplasmic solutes to balance water relations for cells growing in environments of high salt or sugar.
saccharomyces	Genus of yeasts that reproduce asexually by budding or sexually by conjugation
prosthetic group	The tightly bound, nonprotein portion of an enzyme; not the same as coenzyme.
catheterization	CATH-uh-ter-eye-ZAY-shun/ State of being fitted with a catheter.
solute	An entity, notably a molecule or ion, that is in solution.
adaptive radiation	Evolutionary divergence of members of a single phylogenetic lineage into a variety of different adaptive forms; usually the taxa differ in the use of resources or habitats, and have diverged over a relatively short interval of geological time
conformity	A state in which an animal’s internal conditions match the external environmental conditions.
editing	Altering a nucleic acid sequence so as to preserve accuracy of information transfer.
epipharyngeal	belonging or relating to the epipharynx.
nucleoside	An organic molecule containing a purine or pyrimidine base and a five-carbon sugar (ribose or deoxyribose).
transamination	Enzymatic transfer of an amino group from an α-amino acid to an α-keto acid.
enzyme	A protein serving as a catalyst, a chemical agent that changes the rate of a reaction without being consumed by the reaction.
lateral gene transfer	See horizontal transmission.
social groups	Stable groups of repeatedly interacting individuals.
chlorophyll	The pigment in green plants that absorbs solar energy
gradient	In a thermal cycler, a controlled, incremental temperature differential across a reaction block.
elisa	Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay
parsimony method	Choice of a phylogenetic tree that minimizes the number of evolutionary changes necessary to explain species divergence.
snrna	see small nuclear RNA
conjugated protein	A protein containing one or more prosthetic groups.
anthropogenic	Processes or materials derived from human activities, in contrast to those produced by natural processes
density independent	Referring to any characteristic that is not affected by population density
mesophile	Organism living in the temperature range around that of warm-blooded animals, usually between 20-45°C.
synthetic theory of evolution	See Neo-Darwinism.
diurnal	/die-ERN-əl/ adj
g-protein	see GTP-binding protein
cis face	Face of a Golgi stack at which material enters the organelle
dacryagogue	/DACK-ree-ə-goag/ n
pigment	A compound that appears white, black or colored due to the patterns of absorption and reflection of light hitting the molecules of the compound
genus	an assemblage of species agreeing in some one character or series of characters; usually considered as arbitrary and opinionative, though some consider it a natural assemblage.
demographic	Pertaining to processes that change the size of a population (i.e., birth, death, dispersal).
free-energy change	Change in the free energy during a reaction: the free energy of the product molecules minus the free energy of the starting molecules
coiled-coil	Stable rodlike quaternary protein structure formed by two or three α helices interacting with each other along their length; commonly found in fibrous proteins and certain transcription factors
ring	a circle or annulus, usually margining a discolored spot.
temperature	A measure of the intensity of heat in degrees, reflecting the average kinetic energy of the molecules.
polyphyletic	Pertaining to a taxon whose members were derived from two or more ancestral forms not common to all members.
stereotactic lesions	highly specific damage done to a part of the brain
inducible proteins	Those which are synthesized in different amounts depending on cellular signals.
heterozygous	organism that has two different alleles for the same trait and is said to be hybrid for that particular trait.
biotransformation	Biotransformation is the chemical conversion of substances by living organisms or enzyme preparations.
branchpoint	An intermediate in a biochemical pathway that can follow more than one route in following steps.
nuclear transfer	Transfer of a nucleus or small blastomere to an enucleated oocyte
semicordate	half or partly heart-shaped.
active site	The region on the surface of an enzyme where the substrate binds and the chemical reaction occurs.
hydroxide ion	A water molecule that has lost a proton; OH-.
aerogenic	Gas production, e.g., aerogenic fermentation.
prion disease	Transmissible spongiform encephalopathies such as Kreutzfeld–Jacob disease in humans, scrapie in sheep and bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) in cattle, that are apparently caused and transmitted by abnormal forms of a protein (prions).
nonproductive binding	The non-reactive binding of a substrate to the active site of an enzyme.
vitta	a longitudinal, colored line.
induction	The ability of one group of embryonic cells to influence the development of another.
intermolecular force	force that occurs between molecules
conic -al	cylindrical, with a flat base, tapering to a point.
hippocampal region	Relating to the hippocampus, a complex structure involved with certain types of memory functions.
enthalpy	Heat; in a chemical reaction, the enthalpy of the reactants or products is equal to their total bond energies.
micrograph	The graphic representation of a microscope image.
hydrolysis	Reaction in which a covalent bond is cleaved with addition of an H from water to one product of the cleavage and of an OH from water to the other.
alga	Informal term used to describe a wide range of simple unicellular and multicellular eucaryotic photosynthetic organisms
myofibril	A unit of thick and thin filaments in a muscle fiber.
reciprocal altruism	Altruistic behavior between unrelated individuals, whereby the current altruistic individual benefits in the future when the current beneficiary reciprocates.
aseptic	Procedures that prevent the contamination of cultures, media, animals, and persons by extraneous microorganisms.
syngeneic	An antigenically identical organism.
structural isomers	Compounds that have the same molecular formula but differ in the covalent arrangements of their atoms.
hydronium ion	water molecule plus a proton
ultraviolet region	portion of the electromagnetic spectrum that includes wavelengths shorter than those of the visible color of violet
ultra centrifuges	A machine that spins test tubes at the fastest speeds to separate liquids and particles of different densities.
genetic load	Average number of lethal alleles per individual in a population.
punnett square	Shorthand method of determining the outcome of a genetic cross
pla2	An abbreviation for Phospholipase A2.
metapnystega	that circular area of metanotum behind the postscutellum.
ligands	A molecule that binds specifically to a receptor site of another molecule.
coutnercurrent exchange	The opposite flow of adjacent fluids that maximizes transfer ratesEx
metabolic rate	The total amount of energy an animal uses in a unit of time.
supercooling point	The highest temperature at which freezing is almost certain to occur promptly in a supercooled solution
principal component analysis	Visual and numerical analysis of collinearity among variables
sucker	Shoots arising from below ground level either from a rhizome or from a root.
neurod	A transcription factor important in neuronal development.
catheter	KATH-uh-ter/ A tube for introducing liquids into, or extracting them from, the body.
renal artery	The blood vessel bringing blood to the kidney
basidiocarp	Elaborate fruiting body of a dikaryotic mycelium of a club fungus.
generation time	Time needed for a population to double
chlorosome	A cigar-shaped structure bounded by a nonunit membrane and containing the light harvesting bacteriochlorophyll in green sulfur bacteria and in Chloroflexus.
pluripotent	Capable of differentiating into several final differentiated cell types.
tessellated	checkered; more or less like a chess-board
phenotype	The phenotype is the physical or chemical appearance of an organism with respect to both the expression of its genetic material and environmental influences on its appearance.
constitutive enzymes	Enzymes synthesized in fixed amounts, regardless of growth conditions.
clinical informatics	The use of informatics to evaluate clinical trial design and to design electronic systems for protocol and data storage.
dynamic mosaic paradigm	In this paradigm landscapes are viewed as heterogeneous with more continuous variation rather than divided into discrete and distinct habitats
exarate -us	sulcated: sculptured.
serology	The study of antigen-antibody reactions in vitro.
aestivation	applied to summer dormancy.
celsius scale	A temperature scale (OC) equal to 5/9 (OF - 32) that measures the freezing point of water at O°C and the boiling point of water at 100°C.
sexual dimorphism	A special case of polymorphism based on the distinction between the secondary sex characteristics of males and females.
lactid acid fermentation	The conversion of pyruvate to lactate with no release of carbon dioxide.
physiomics	The study of the complete set of interactions that produce the physiology of an organism.
epithelial cell	Any cell that forms part of the outer covering of an organism or organ.
determinate growth	Growth that occurs only during the initial stage of the life of an organism, or until a given organ is completely formed
biotechnology	the large-scale exploitation of microorganisms, including fungi, to produce pharmaceuticals, feedstuffs, or other valuable metabolites.
directive coloration	directive marks or colors which tend to divert the attention of an enemy from more vital parts.
choke	a disease of grasses caused by Epichloë (Clavicipitales); the stroma of the teleomorph encircles the main axis of the grass and prevents it from flowering.
amphipathic molecule	A molecule that has both a hydrophilic region and a hydrophobic region.
palaeozoic	the geological era covering the period from 600-225 million years before present (m.y.b.p.); includes the Cambrian, Ordovician, Silurian, Devonian, Carboniferous and Permian periods.
cd array	A microfluidics-based array in compact disc format that utilizes centrifugal force to transport molecules through microchannels.
confertim	closely clustered or crowded.
cycads	Group of gymnosperm
ana	See anti-nuclear antibody.
clitellum	In annelids, a swelling of the body towards the head of the animal, where the gonads are located
chemoorganotroph	Organism that obtains energy and electrons (reducing power) from the oxidation of organic compounds.
polychromatic	many colored.
aseptate	Lacking cross-walls
glycosaminoglycan	Long, linear, highly charged polysaccharide composed of a repeating pair of sugars, one of which is always an amino sugar
rufescent	reddish.
evolution	Genetic changes in populations of organisms through time that lead to differences among them.
topoisomerases	Enzymes that introduce positive or negative supercoils in closed, circular duplex DNA.
acid-fast	The property of resisting decolorization with acidified alcohol or with dilute mineral acids after being stained with a strong dye such as carbol fuchsin.
termination factors	Proteins that are exclusively involved in the termination reactions of protein synthesis on the ribosome.
carcinogen	Something in the environment that causes cancer.
batch culture	the growth of microorganisms in a fixed volume of medium.
biodegradable	A material that can be broken down to simpler components by a biological process.
wild-type	The typical form of an organism or gene as it occurs in nature, as distinguished from mutant forms that may result from selective breeding or disease.
temperature gradient	Technically, the difference in temperature between two places divided by the distance separating those two places
deterrence	The degree to which a plant defense is able to reduce damage during a choice test (in which a natural enemy is able to choose between defended and undefended plants).
beta blocker	Drugs that block the action of certain hormones on the heart
convergence	kuhn-VER-juhnce, -jence/ Any similarity between organisms not considered to reflect relationship
amnion fold	the extensions of the amnion which close the mouth of the amnion cavity in the embryo.
feedback	When the products of a process affect its own function.
ice-nucleating agent	A dissolved or undissolved substance that promotes freezing (i.e., limits supercooling).
duodenum	The first section of the small intestine, where acid chyme from the stomach mixes with digestive juices from the pancreas, liver, gallbladder, and gland cells of the intestinal wall.
micropipette	see microelectrode
d-	(1) dextrorotatory; (2) deoxy-.
pollinia	A mass of fused pollen produced by many orchids.
template	A polynucleotide chain that serves as a surface for the absorption of monomers of a growing polymer and thereby dictates the sequence of the monomers in the growing chain.
antisense rna	RNA complementary to a specific RNA transcript of a gene that can hybridize to the specific RNA and block its function.
mullerian association	a group of species belonging to different genera, often different families or even orders, having similar colors, possessing more or less distasteful qualities and living in the same locality.
isotope	A form of an atom that differs from other forms of the atom in atomic weight
savanna	A tropical grassland biome with scattered individual trees, large herbivores, and three distinct seasons based primarily on rainfall, maintained by occasional fires and drought.
apnea	The absence of breathing.
antibiotic	Organic substance produced by one species of organism that in low concentrations will kill or inhibit growth of certain other organisms.
docosahexaenoic acid	A member of the omega-3 family of fatty acids
littoral zone	In a lake, the shallow, well-lit waters close to shore.
hlh	see helix-loop-helix
glycerol	Small organic molecule that is the parent compound of many small molecules in the cell, including phospholipids.
erratic	n
nernst equation	An equation that relates the redox potential to the standard redox potential and the concentrations of the oxidized and reduced form of the couple.
mutilate -us	cut off: mutilated: abbreviated: not complete.
sulfhydryl group	A hydrogen atom covalently bonded to a sulfur atom; also called a thiol group
undifferentiated	adj
chlorophyll b	A type of yellow-green accessory photosynthetic pigment that transfers energy to chlorophyll a.
argillaceous	of the texture, appearance or color of clay.
subcostal fold or furrow	lies between costa and radius.
duct	/dəkt/ n
crista	One of the folds of the inner mitochondrial membrane.
atrium	A chamber that receives blood returning to the vertebrate heart.
autotrophs	Organisms that obtain energy from the sun or from the oxidation of inorganic substance and convert it into their food through a series of chemical reactions.
oriental	in geographical zoology as used by Wallace, that part of the earth's surface including Asia east of the Indus River, south of the Himalayas and the Yangtse-kiang watershed, Ceylon, Sumatra, Java and the Philippines.
endocytosis	Uptake of extracellular materials by invagination of the plasma membrane to form a small membrane-bounded vesicle (early endosome)
magenta	pinkish red; an aniline product.
homocysteine	A sulfur containing amino acid
disturbance	A force that changes a biological community and usually removes organisms from it
ph scale	This scale is a logarithmic scale for expressing the concentration of hydrogen ions in a solution involving water
biome	Any of the world's major ecosystems, classified according to the predominant vegetation and characterized by adaptations of organisms to that particular environment.
acrosomal vesicle	Region at the head end of a sperm cell that contains a sac of hydrolytic enzymes used to digest the protective coating of the egg.
autotroph	An organism that can synthesize its own complex molecules from very simple carbon and nitrogen sources, such as carbon dioxide and ammonia.
mediastinal	relating to the longitudinal median line or area.
etiolation	Plant morphological adaptations for growing in darkness
3-hydroxykynurenin	A free radical generator that is present in increased amounts in humans with HD and HD mice.
pathology	n
linebreeding	System of mating which maintains close relationships in descendent generations to a particular ancestor.
marine	Refers to the ocean.
anaerobic respiration	Metabolic process whereby electrons are transferred from an organic, or in some cases, inorganic compounds to an inorganic acceptor molecule other than oxygen
methyl	Hydrophobic chemical group derived from methane (CH4).
bradykinesia	difficulty initiating and continuing movements; literally means slow moving
trace elements	elements essential for growth, but required only in minute amounts.
hydrophobic effect	The noncovalent association of nonpolar groups with each other in aqueous solution.
organelles	Membrane-bounded structures found in eukaryotic cells; contain enzymes and other components required for specialized cell functions.
agonistic behavior	A class of behavior that includes both aggressive and submissive behavior.
furcula	a forked process: an osmaterium {Scanner's comment: sic
sub-cortical	beneath the bark; as in larval borings, etc.
dalton	A unit of measure for atomic and molecular mass, equal to 1/12 the mass of an atom of the most abundant carbon isotope, 12C
facultative	Literally means "optional"; an adjective used to describe that an environmental factor is optinally (not necessarily) required for an oragnism to grow
equilibrium	The state of a system in which no further net change is occurring; the free energy is at a minimum.
centrifugate	sen-TRIF-yuh-gate/ To subject to centrifugation.
aspect	Whether north or south facing.
reduction	Addition of electrons to an atom, as occurs during the addition of hydrogen to a molecule or the removal of oxygen from it
magnoliid	Any member of the basal assemblage of flowering plants.
oligonucleotide	A short nucleic acid molecule, either obtained from an organism or synthesized chemically.
protist	A member of the Protista.
carbohydrates	Energy-packed compounds consisting of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen that provide quick fuel for organisms.
l1	One of three hybrid crosses used to detect linkage
osmoregulation	The ability of organisms to control the concentration of water and solutes in their bodily fluids
cot curve	A curve that indicates the rate of DNA-DNA annealing as a function of DNA concentration and time.
load–velocity relationship	The principle that the velocity of shortening of a muscle during isotonic contraction decreases as load increases.
facultative anaerobe	An organism that grows in the presence or the absence of oxygen.
syntenic	Loci located on the same chromosome.
ramose -ous	branched, or having long branches.
polar covalent bond	covalent bond in which the electrons are not equally shared, but rather displaced toward the more electronegative atom
homozygous	When both members of a gene pair in a diploid organism are identical and code for the same expressions of a characteristic
tremor	A quivering, involuntary movement of a part or parts of the body.
inclusus	when one part is wholly or partially hidden in another.
dehydration synthesis	/də-HIGH-dray-shən, dee-/ The linking of monomers into a polymer by removing a molecule of water from each.
newborn screening	examining blood samples from a newborn infant to detect disease-related abnormalities or deficiencies in gene products.
numerical taxonomy	A statistical method for classifying organisms by comparing them on the basis of measurable phenotypic characters and giving each character equal weight
chromosomes	structures found in the nucleus of a cell, which contain the genes
dl	Deciliter.
absorb	to obtain food by taking up water and dissolved substances across a membrane; this is how fungi operate
disproportionation	The splitting of a chemical compound into two new compounds, one more oxidized and one more reduced than the original compound.
geologic maps	Maps that show the types and ages of rock of an area
antagonist	An opponent
thermoregulation	The maintenance of internal temperature within a tolerable range.
fluorescent dye	Molecule that absorbs light at one wavelength and responds by emitting light at another wavelength
dry heat transfer	Heat transfer by conduction, convection, or thermal radiation; heat transfer that does not involve evaporation or condensation of water.
microgram	a millionth (10-6) of a gram
transparent	so clear as not to obstruct vision.
ascitic fluid	Serous fluid in peritoneal cavity.
valvule	any small, valve-like process.
amino acid residue	amino acid that was once incorporated into a peptide chain
biosynthetic pathway	Any metabolic pathway by which one or more organic compounds are synthesized.
desmosome	/DEZ-mə-soam/ n
meguma	n
agar	A polysaccharide plant product isolated from red algae
acetaminophen	A compound that relieves mild pain and reduces fever
enzyme	protein made by living cells that acts as a biological catalyst.
entognathous	see entotrophous.
re-methylation	See methylation.
ectoderm	The outer basic layer of tissue in those animals with true tissues
relative abundance	Differences in the abundance of different species within a community.
anaerobe	An organism that is incapable of oxygen-dependent growth and cannot grow in the presence of an oxygen concentration equivalent to that present in an air atmosphere (21% oxygen)
parasite	Something that lives in, with, or on another organism and obtains benefits from the host, which it usually injures.
solute	Any molecule that is dissolved in a liquid
peptide bond	A substituted amide linkage between the α-amino group of one amino acid and the α-carboxyl group of another, with the elimination of the elements of water.
craton	n
glucocorticoid-glucocorticoid receptor complex	Another term for the glucocorticoid-GR complex.
plasticity	An organism's ability to alter or "mold" itself in response to local environmental conditions.
photon	A quantum, or discrete amount, of light energy.
denaturation of proteins	The unfolding of a protein molecule, usually by high temperatures or ionic detergents such as sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS).
exon	Segment of DNA that is translated into protein.
ingestion	eating other organisms or organic material that is decomposing
ada	Americans with Disabilities Act.
stratification	Subpopulations of individuals within a larger population.
gibbs free energy	The thermodynamic function that combines the effects of enthalpy and entropy to predict the energetically favorable direction of a chemical reaction.
inequal	a surface with irregular elevations and depressions.
combinatorial biology	The use of libraries of recombinant microbes to produce complex natural products.
melange	A body of rocks consisting of large blocks (mappable size) of different rocks jumbled together with little continuity of contacts.
energy	Classically, energy is defined as the capacity to do work which doesn’t really tell us what it is just what we can do with it if we had some
prochiral molecule	A nonchiral molecule that lacks handedness and is optically inactive, but would become chiral by a change in one of the substituents at the chiral center
mediad	toward the median plane or middle.
microclimates	A climate of a relatively small area in which the temperature and moisture of that area can vary significantly from the greater region.
three quarter sib	Sib with one parent in common and one grandparent of the second parent in common, e.g., paternal half sibs with the same maternal grandsire.
undate	wavy or waved.
electrochemical equilibrium	A term that is synonymous with equilibrium, but emphasizes that the equilibrium state for an ion or other charged solute depends on both electrical and chemical effects
autosome	A chromosome not involved in sex determination
cochleiformis	formed like a snail shell.
protein	A three-dimensional biological polymer constructed from a set of 20 different monomers called amino acids.
structural protein	A protein which fulfill a purely structural role (i.e
homeodomain	DNA-binding domain that defines a class of gene regulatory proteins important in animal development.
monosaccharide	single sugar
hydrogenation	A process that alters the chemical structure of unsaturated fat and makes it more solid and long-lasting.
hydrocarbon	compound that contains only the elements hydrogen and carbon
tergal	belonging to the primitively upper surface: see dorsal.
human development	Continuous changes that occur during an individual's life, starting at fertilization.
aspirate	Fluid removed from a cavity or lesion (leishmaniasis, hydatid disease, amebiasis).
acetylcholine	A neurotransmitter active in the parasympathetic nervous system
top down control	Control of a population by consumers.
applied research	Engineering-type research that puts the discoveries of basic research into practice.
fluorescence enhancement	The enhancement of fluorescence by the polarity of the medium.
diplophase	/DIP-low-faze/ n
ater	deep black; not shining.
membrane transport	The facilitated transport of a molecule across a membrane.
dyad	/DIE-ad/ n
phylogeny	The evolutionary history of a species or group of species in terms of their derivations and connections
disturbed habitat species	Species that often live where avalanches, mud slides, and fires occur frequently.
energy charge	The fractional degree to which the ATPIADPfAMP system is filled with high-energy phosphate groups.
dna	Abbreviation for deoxyribonucleic acid
fissure	a crevice: a narrow longitudinal opening: a slit.
c terminus	see carboxyl terminus
carbon dioxide dissociation curve	Seecarbon dioxide equilibrium curve.
acetal	The product formed by the successive condensation of two alcohols with a single aldehyde
optimal dosage	The dosage that would be best for the patient population at large
rare	seldom seen or found.
repetitive sequences	Repeated polynucleotide sequences
caldera	n
nonpolar	a nonpolar molecule does not have a separation of positive and negative electric charges within the molecule
scope	We review recent studies that have significantly improved our understanding of the early steps of double fertilization
cerebrovascular disease	for example a cerebrovascular accident (stroke).
gene expression	The process by which a a gene product is produced
allosteric	Used to describe some protein, especially enzymes, in which a compound combines with a site on the protein other than the active site
serpentinous	a dirty, dark green [Hooker's green].
vegetal pole	The end at which most of the yolk is located in an animal egg
covalent bonds	a type of strong chemical bond in which two atoms share one pair of valence electrons
oxygen debt	An older term for excess postexercise oxygen consumption.
verrucose	having little hard lumps or wart-like elevations.
scale up	Conversion of an industrial process from a small laboratory setup to a large commercial fermentation.
diethylstilbestrol	A synthetic nonsteroidal estrogen that was found to cause birth defects in pregnant women.
countercurrent multiplication	A process that occurs in a system consisting of two juxtaposed fluid streams flowing in opposite directions, in which metabolic processes produce a difference (termed the single effect) between adjacent parts of the two streams
lagging strand	Newly synthesized DNA strand formed at the growing fork as short, discontinuous segments, called Okazaki fragments, which are later joined by DNA ligase
flax oil	A type of oil derived from flax plant that contains a great amount of omega-3 fatty acids.
supra-clypeus	= post-clypeus; q.v.: = nasus.
tetrad analysis	A method for establishing linkage relationships in fungi by analysing the four products from individual meiotic divisions.
equal	of the same length, size or shape: the superfices when they are without inequalities.
clavicle	The collar bone
anabolism	The phase of intermediary metabolism concerned with the energyrequiring biosynthesis of cell components from smaller precursors.
insectary	a place or building where insects are bred and studied.
plasma membrane	The membrane at the boundary of every cell that acts as a selective barrier, thereby regulating the cell's chemical composition.
morgan	Recombination distance of 100 percent
protograph	all original description by a figure or picture made from the original type.
affinity chromatography	A chromatographic method used to isolate biomolecules that reversibly bind a molecule attached to a solid-phase support.
micropterous	small winged.
true breeding	Plants that produce offspring of the same variety when they self-pollinate.
bdna	Branched DNA Assay
dipole	A separation of charge within a single molecule.
dyspnea	/disp-NEE-yə/ n
squamous	The flat, tile-like shape of a type of epithelial cell.
frontal ridge	in Coleopteran; a sharp ridge on the dorsal margin of the eye, extending forward.
lead compound	drug (or a modified version of that drug) that shows high promise for becoming an approved drug
fornicate	arched or vaulted: concave within, convex without.
nuditas	= nudity.
global warming	popular term used to describe the increase in average global temperatures
spatial learning	The ability of organisms learn relationships and perhaps solve problems in two or three dimensional space
agarose gel electrophoresis	Separation of proteins based on molecular weight by electrical-currentstimulated movement through a semisolid gel matrix.
pyruvate dehydrogenase complex	A critical group of enzymes involved in energy metabolism.
acyl-coa	A product of fatty acid activation
structure–activity relationship study	systematic changes made to a drug molecule and assessment of the resulting changes in activity
de novo pathway	Pathway for synthesis of a biomolecule, such as a nucleotide, from simple precursors; as distinct from a salvage pathway.
okasaki fragments	Short DNA fragments of about 1000-2000 nucleotides long formed during DNA replication of the lagging strand by discontinuous replication of DNA
rhynchota	= Rhyngota: q.v.
mating	See Conjugation.
stenocephalous	with a narrow, elongate head.
telophase i	Stage of meiosis I
gtp	Nucleoside triphosphate produced by phosphorylating GDP (guanosine diphosphate)
reticulate	Interconnecting, like a network.
lethal effect	Effects within a community that occur when predators consume lower trophic levels.
phosphorylation	Reaction in which a phosphate group becomes covalently coupled to another molecule.
strata	See Geological strata.
ozone layer	region of the stratosphere with the maximum ozone concentration
cleptobiosis	see symbiosis.
neuronal	Of or pertaining to the neurons.
catalyst	KAT-uh-list/ A molecule that increases the speed of a chemical reaction without being consumed by the reaction.
cephalon	In trilobites, the head shield bearing the eyes, antennae, and mouth
forbs	Broad-leaved herbaceous plants.
erythrocyte	A cell containing large amounts of hemoglobin and specialized for oxygen transport; a red blood cell.
oxidation	The loss of electrons from a substance involved in a redox reaction.
liber	free.
tenant hair	see tenent hair.
surface plasmon resonoance	This occurs when surface plasmon waves are excited by light deflection at a metal.liquid interface
sclerotium	Modified fungal hyphae that form a compact, hard vegetative resting structure with a thick pigmented outer rind.
goldman equation	An equation expressing the quantitative relationship between the concentrations of charged species on either side of a membrane and the resting transmembrane potential.
ganglia	Plural form of ganglion.
mole	an Avogadro's number of objects
anion	a negatively charged ion.
candidiasis	a disease of man and animals caused by species of Candida, esp
chemical symbol	one- or two-letter abbreviation for an element
blue gene	A massively parallel supercomputer with 1 million processors that is under construction and will be capable of 1 petaflop floating point operations/sec
tay-sachs disease	an inherited disease of infancy characterized by profound mental retardation and early death; it is caused by a recessive gene mutation.
langmuir-blodgett film	A lipid bilayer on the surface of water.
antigenic determinants	The portion of an antigen that interacts with an immunoglobulin or T cell receptor.
cri du chat syndrome	A group of symptoms that result from missing a piece of chromosome 5
membranaceous	thin, skin-like, semi-transparent, like parchment: of a thin, pliable texture.
saprophyte	An organism that feeds on decomposing organic material.
suborder	a division of an order higher than a family, based on a character common to a large series of species; e.g
diffusion	/də-FYOO-shən, diff-/ n
trisomy 18	Presence of three copies of chromosome 18; in humans, results in Edward syndrome.
punctulatus	with small punctures.
prostaglandins	A class of lipid-soluble, hormonelike regulatory molecules derived from arachidonate and other polyunsaturated fatty acids.
geometric isomers	Isomers related by rotation about a double bond; also called cis and trans isomers.
hamilton's rule	A general model that details the conditions under which altruistic behavior should evolve.
androconia	specialized, usually small scales of peculiar form, found localized on some male butterflies.
ketogenic	Describing amino acids that are metabolized to acetoacetate and acetate.
contact chemoreceptor	A chemo-sensory cell (of a terrestrial animal) that is normally stimulated by chemicals that contact it in a liquid
protein	The major macromolecular constituent of cells
glycome	The total carbohydrate complement of a cell.
paranal forks	two lateral, bristle-like structures in some caterpillars, used to throw frass pellets to a distance.
microcirculatory bed	In a closed circulatory system, one of the systems of microscopically fine blood vessels that connect arteries and veins, weaving among ordinary tissue cells
antigen	A macromolecule that elicits an immune response by lymphocytes.
vulgar	common; not conspicuous: obscure in appearance and abundant in number.
holopneustic	having many pairs of open stigmata.
sibs	An abbreviation for siblings.
coenzyme	A low-molecular-weight organic molecules that work together with enzymes to catalyze biological reactions.
macromolecules	molecules of high molecular mass that have characteristic properties because of their large size
target organism	the organism against which a treatment is directed (cf
rodinia	n
heat shock response	A global regulatory response resulting in increased or decreased expression of a number of genes in response to injury by heat, osmotic change and certain other forms of stress.
energetic war of attrition	A model that assumes that each individual does not have access to information on its opponent.s RHP
flexible	pliable; with elastic properties.
post-	behind or after.
photoautotroph	An organism able to use light as its sole source of energy and carbon dioxide as sole carbon source.
phenylketonuria	Genetic disease characterized by mental retardation, light skin, and eczema; caused by mutations in the gene that encodes phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH), a liver enzyme that normally metabolizes the amino acid phenylalanine
suspension-feeder	An aquatic animal, such as a clam or a baleen whale, that sifts small food particles from the water.
exoderm	the outer skin or crust.
half-life	The time that it takes for half of the activity of a molecule to decay.
cohesion-tension theory	A theory accounting for the upward movement of water in plants
obligate	Required
cryopreservation	A process for storing biological material at very low temperatures for lengthy periods of time
signate -us	= with marks or spots; see notate.
bilayer	See phospholipid bilayer.
response regulator	A regulatory protein that responds to sensor protein of a "two-component" regulatory system
tracer	Molecule or atom that has been labeled either chemically or radioactively so that it can be followed in a biochemical process or readily located in a cell or tissue.
bacteriostatic	A condition which prevents the growth of bacteria without killing them.
nucleotide	A nucleoside with one or more phosphate groups linked via an ester bond to the sugar moiety
f1 cross	A cross between two pure-breeding or homozygous lines
regional	A collection of smaller habitats.
monounsaturated	property of fats in which only one double bond exists between carbon atoms per molecule
aurantiacus	orange colored; a mixture of yellow and red [chrome orange].
implantation	The attachment of the embryo to the uterine wall.
cervix	The lower neck of the uterus
respiration	breathing or taking breath: union of oxygen with tissues and liberation of carbon dioxide from same.
stress	The effects of psychosocial and environmental factors on physical and mental well-being.
optical biosensor	A sensor that uses light to detect the effect of a chemical on a biological system.
long terminal repeat	(LTR)
chemotrophs	Organisms (usually bacteria) that derive energy
meristem	Group of undifferentiated cells from which new tissues are produced
telum	a spear, or spear-shaped process.
chlorophyll	Green pigment required for photosynthesis.
blastomycosis	An acute or chronic mycosis which usually affects man and animals (e.g
methanotroph	An organism capable of oxidizing methane.
disperses	with scattered markings, punctures or other small sculptures.
segmentate	made up of rings or segments.
analysis of variance	Statistical technique for testing for differences among the means of several groups with respect to a continuous variable.
till	n
exogenous	Originating outside of the organism.
tube feet	Extensions of the water-vascular system of echinoderms, protruding from the body and often ending in suckers
arousal threshold	In the study of sleep, a measure of the difficulty of waking a sleeping individual at a particular time; a low threshold signifies that sleep terminates relatively easily.
salting in	The increase in solubility that is displayed by typical globular proteins upon the addition of small amounts of certain salts, such as ammonium sulfate.
ethology	see ecology.
lysosome	A eukaryotic organelle containing hydrolases active at pH 5
single chain antibody	A synthetic antibody based on a single chain.
yeast artificial chromosome	A cloning vector which contains sequences from a yeast chromosome required for DNA replication and segregration
provinciality	The degree to which the taxonomic composition of a biota is differentiated among major geographic regions.
thermophile	A microorganism that grows optimally in high-temperature environments.
calorie	A unit of energy equal to the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of 1 g of water by 1°C, from 14.5°C to 15.5°C
cleavage furrow	The first sign of cleavage in an animal cell; a shallow groove in the cell surface near the old metaphase plate.
linoleic acid	An essential fatty acid
caenorhabditis elegans	A nematode widely used in cell lineage studies.
hiv	Human Immunodeficiency Virus.
dormant sprays	sprays used when plants are dormant, to control overwintering pathogens.
d-loop	The structure formed when ssDNA pairs with a dsDNA molecule, disrupting the pairing of the original duplex DNA to form a hybrid between the ssDNA and one of the strands of the duplex DNA, and displacing the other strand from the duplex.
hydrophilic	"water loving"
cnidocyst	The "stinging cell" of a cnidarian.
band	a transverse marking broader than a line.
electronegativity	The tendency for an atom to pull electrons toward itself.
meiosis	In eukaryotes, reduction division, the process by which the change from diploid to haploid occurs.
monotremes	Egg-laying mammals, presently restricted to Australasia; the platypus (Ornithorhyncus) and echidna spiny anteater (Tachyglossus, Zaglossus).
sporozoa	Nonmotile parasitic protozoa.
hydrophobic	A property meaning "water fearing," describing molecules that are repelled by water.
htlv-1	Human T Cell Lymphotropic Virus (type 1)
chromophore	A functional group that absorbs light, giving rise to color.
green world hypothesis	The conjecture that terrestrial herbivores consume relatively little plant biomass because they are held in check by a variety of factors, including predators, parasites, and disease.
bacteriophage	A virus that infects a bacterium or prokaryotes.
proton	positively charged subatomic particle having the same mass as a neutron
stretch-gated channel	A channel protein that opens and closes in response to stretching or pulling forces that alter the physical tension on a membrane.
negative feedback	A process by which the deviations of a property from a specific set-point level are opposed, thereby tending to keep the property at the set-point level.
pustulated hair	in Mallophaga those arising from unchitinized spaces.
ventilation	Forced flow (convection) of air or water into and out of structures used for external respiration or over body surfaces used for external respiration.
phylogeny	Evolutionary history of an organism or group of organisms, often presented in chart form as a phylogenetic tree.
systematics	Although defined by Simpson as the study of the diversity of organisms and all their comparative and evolutionary relationships, it is often used interchangeably with the terms classification and taxonomy.
coenzymes	Chemicals required by a number of
dinosaurs & pterosaurs	Most wiped out by end of Cretaceous period.
omnivores	Animals that feed on both plants and animals.
oxygen	chemical element essential for efficient release of energy from food during aerobic respiration.
magis	more.
specific epithet	The label (or designation) of a particular species in the binomial nomenclature system
chronic	Long term or frequently recurring
cap	See catabolite gene activator protein.
adap	AIDS Drug Assistance Programs
dimorphism	a difference in form, color, etc, between individuals of the same species, characterizing two distinct types: may be seasonal, sexual or geographic.
gel retardation	A technique that identifies a DNA fragment that has a bound protein by virtue of its decreased mobility during gel electrophoresis.
trimeric gtp-binding protein	see GTP-binding protein
insight learning	The ability of an animal to perform a correct or appropriate behavior on the first attempt in a situation with which it has had no prior experience.
ex ova	from or out of the egg: applied to specimens that have been bred from the egg stage.
pleurococcus	type of unicellular plant that grows in damp, shady habitats.
electron donor	A substance that donates electrons in an oxidation-reduction reaction.
sandstone	Sedimentary rock composed of sand-sized clasts.
conotoxins	koh-no-TAWKS-uhns/ Toxins produced by snails of the genus Conus.
genetic engineering	Manipulating genetic material of organisms in order to produce desired effects.
isomers	Any two molecules with the same molecular formula but a different arrangement of molecular groups.
dens	a tooth or tooth-like process.
lipid	Any organic molecule that is insoluble in water but is soluble in nonpolar organic solvents
leaching	The dissolving of minerals and other elements in soil or rocks by the downward movement of water.
benzimidazoles	systemic fungicides, including Benomyl (q.v.).
deletion	Loss of a segment of a chromosome.
pm10	particulate matter with an average diameter of 10 µm or less (on the order of 0.0004 in)
phenetic	Referring to phenotypic characters that can be described or measured
nonpolar	Possessing hydrophobic (water repelling) characteristics and not easily dissolved in water.
crypto	hidden, concealed.
basic research	Research driven by scientists' interest in questions pertaining to the biology behind a process or disease.
auto-	A prefix that indicates self-origin.
alcohol fermentation	The conversion of pyruvate to carbon dioxide and ethyl alcohol.
subthalamic nucleus	an oval mass of grey matter located in the caudal part of the subthalamus; associated with the striate body
secondary protein structure	The arrangement of the amino acids within subregions of a protein molecule into highly regular geometric shapes
estrus	The interval during which female mammals exhibit maximum sexual receptivity, usually coinciding with the release of eggs from the ovary.
dimer	Structure resulting from the association of two subunits.
platelet-activating factor	A compound that reduces inflammation by increasing permeability of blood vessels and contracting various involuntary muscles such as those in airways.
conspicuous	striking: easily seen at a glance.
photoautotrophs	Organisms that are able to synthesize their own food from collected light energy through photosynthesis.
strigate	having striga: applied to a surface on which the striga are impressed as in the elytra of some beetles, or to an ornamentation composed of fine, short lines
learning	Learning is the ability of an organism to modify its behavior based on past experience
biosensor	A device that uses a biological element, such as an immobilized enzyme or cell, as a sensor.
ig	see immunoglobulin
chemical energy	type of energy present in food before respiration takes place.
hypertonic	Describes any medium with a sufficiently high concentration of solutes to cause water to move out of a cell due to osmosis.
roche moutonee	n
recycled-content product	product made from materials that otherwise would have been in the waste stream
fauna	All animals of a particular region or time period.
evident	easily seen or recognized.
temperate virus	A virus which upon infection of a host does not necessarily cause lysis but whose genome may replicate in synchrony with that of the host
polar group	A hydrophilic (water-loving) group.
platelets	Small, enucleated cells that initiate blood clotting; they arise from cells called megakaryocytes in the bone marrow
cofactor	Inorganic ion or coenzyme that is required for an enzyme’s activity.
hexanephric	with six kidneys, or structures serving as such.
genome	The total genetic content of a cell or a virus.
prokaryote	An organism lacking a nucleus and other membrane-bounded compartments.
liver	The largest organ in the vertebrate body
avogadro's number	number of atoms in exactly 12 g of carbon-12
chitin	A
dsdna	Double-stranded DNA.
dalton	n
holliday junction	The cruciform structure formed as an intermediate in homologous genetic recombination.
antibiotic	A natural product that inhibits bacterial growth (is bacteriostatic) and sometimes results in bacterial death (is bacteriocidal).
antiserum	A serum containing antibodies.
reuptake	The process by which a presynaptic nerve cell takes neurotransmitter out of the synapse and recycles it to prevent too much signaling.
lysogenic pathway	A complex pattern of virus reproduction in which viral genetic material inserts itself into the host cell’s genetic material
dttp	Thymidine triphosphate.
antimicrobial	harmful to microorganisms by either killing or inhibiting growth.
peptide map	Characteristic two-dimensional pattern (on paper or gel) formed by the separation of the mixture of peptides produced by the partial digestion of a protein.
carrying capacity	The maximum population size that can be supported by the available resources, symbolized as K.
common intermediate	A chemical compound common to two chemical reactions, as a product of one and a reactant in the other.
reticulate	like net-work.
free energy	A quantity of energy that interrelates entropy (S) and the system's total energy (H); symbolized by G
subtus	beneath; at the under surface.
paracentric inversion	Inversion which does not include the centromere in the inverted segment.
beta sheet	The protein configuration resulting from the alignment of multiple adjacent beta strands and the formation of hydrogen bonds between them.
nuclide	A single isotope.
alutaceous	rather pale leather brown [burnt sienna]: covered with minute cracks, like the human skin.
cone	A type of photoreceptor in the vertebrate retina
tandem repeats	Multiple adjacent copies of the same sequence.
assay	A chemical analysis of a substance to determine its components.
cuticle	KYOOT-uh-kuhl/ (1) outermost layer or investment of an organism, particularly the exoskeleton an arthropod; usually made up of fibrous materials such as collagen or chitin, and in some cases strengthened by the addition of minerals (e.g., calcium carbonate) (2) a waxy external layer, that prevents drying; found on the outer surface of many plants.
assortative mating	Mating among individuals on the basis of their phenotypic or genotypic similarities (positive assortative) or differences (negative assortative) rather than mating among all individuals on a random basis.
mrna	Abbreviation for messenger RNA.
expression system	A cell-based protein synthesis system programmed by an expression vector.
integration	The coordination of input signals, as by summing, to provide a harmonious control of output
predatory	= predaceous: q.v.
cartilaginous	of the consistency of cartilage or gristle.
aceous or aceus	suffix; similar to, or of the nature of.
autoradiography	Technique in which a radioactive object produces an image of itself on a photographic film
ketogenic amino acids	Amino acids with carbon skeletons that can serve as precursors of the ketone bodies.
transpiration	Passage of water from the roots of a plant to the atmosphere via the vascular system and the stomata of the leaves.
replicative cell senescence	Phenomenon observed in primary cell cultures as they age, in which cell proliferation slows down and finally halts.
amp	The abbreviation for adenosine monophosphate; also written as 5' AMP, since the phosphate is attached to ribose moiety at position 5.
immunization	The process of generating a state of immunity by artifical means
acute urethral syndrome	Lower urinary tract infection that may be difficult to differentiate from cystitis; seen most commonly in younger, sexually active females and caused by Escherichia coli (counts as low as 100 per milliliter may be significant in this situation), Chlamydia, and other organisms.
mariculture	The culture of marine organisms.
subunit	Component of a multicomponent complex—for example, one protein component of a protein complex or one polypeptide chain of a multichain protein.
gnathochilarium	a plate formed by the labial structures.
ectopic	Occuring in an unusual place or form.
infant mortality	The number of infant deaths per 1,000 live births.
atom	The smallest existing particle of a pure element that can exist and still maintain the properties (or chemical characteristics) of that element
acetyl coa	A two carbon energy rich residue attached to a coenzyme called Coenzyme A
centrolecithal	applied to eggs in which the food yolk is central.
chemotrophs	Organisms (usually bacteria) that derive
amorphous	shapeless, formless.
inoculum	Material used to initiate a microbial culture.
excite	To raise a molecule from the ground state to the excited state.
mesophyll	The photosynthetic tissue of a leaf that is internal to the epidermis, and contains both palisade and spongy cell types.
phytoalexin	A type of compound produced by some plants in response to fungal infection or injury
ppb	parts per billion; a measure of concentration.
antibody	A defense protein synthesized by the immune system of vertebrates
chemoautotroph	An organism that needs only carbon dioxide as a carbon source but that obtains energy by oxidizing inorganic substances.
ectothermic	"Cold-blooded": a body temperature primarily determined by the ambient (environmental) temperature.
gram-positive	Describing the group of bacteria with a cell wall that is structurally less complex and contains more peptidoglycan than that of gram-negative bacteria
nicatinamide adenine dinucleotide	An important electron and hydrogen ion acceptor in cellular respiration
hydrothermal vent	n
ammonite	n
sequence	the order in which things follow; e.g
unstable equilibrium	An equilibrium to which a system does not return if disturbed
pulse-chase	Technique for following the movement of a substance through a biochemical or cellular pathway, by briefly adding the radioactively labeled substance (the pulse) followed by the unlabeled substance (the chase).
amphitrophic	Capable of photosynthetic or chemotrophic growth.
foveolate	with shallow cavities like a honey-comb.
calvin cycle	Major metabolic pathway by which CO2 is incorporated into carbohydrate during the second stage of photosynthesis (carbon fixation) in plants
polar stratospheric clouds	thin stratospheric clouds composed of a small amount of frozen water vapor
kilocalories	Units of 1,000 calories
asymmetric carbon	A carbon atom covalently bonded to four different atoms or groups of atoms.
phospholipids	A molecule that is a constituent of the inner bilayer of biological membranes, having a polar, hydrophilic head and a nonpolar, hydrophobic tail.
suffusion	a clouding, or a spreading of one shade over another.
knuckle-walking	Quadrupedal gait of chimpanzees and gorillas, performed by curling the fingers toward the palm of the hand and using the backs (dorsal surfaces) of the knuckles to support the weight of the front part of the body.
sexual selection	Selection that acts directly on mating success through direct competition between members of one sex for mates (intrasexual selection), or through choices made between them by the opposite sex (epigamic selection), or through a combination of both selective modes
catalytic site	See active site.
conformation	The spatial arrangement of atoms in three dimensions in a macromolecule such as a protein or nucleic acid.
crop rotation	The alternation of planting a nonlegume one year and a legume the next year to restore concentration of fixed nitrogen in the soil.
calcareous	adj
ubiquitin	A small, highly conserved protein that becomes covalently linked to lysine residues in other intracellular proteins
pacemaker	The cell or set of cells that spontaneously initiates a rhythm
bivalve mollusc	A clam, mussel, scallop, oyster, or related animal.
lipids	Organic compounds such as fats, waxes, and steroids that tend to be more soluble in organic solvents of low polarity (for example, ether, chloroform) than in more polar solvents (for example, water).
centrosome	a spherical body that appears outside the nucleus of a cell.
critical concentration	Concentration of a protein monomer, such as actin or tubulin, that is in equilibrium with the assembled form of the protein (i.e
template	A single-stranded polynucleotide (or region of a polynuceotide) that can be copied to produce a complementary polynucleotide.
polymer	A molecule composed of many repeating subunits (monomers) linked together by covalent bonds.
amphoteric	See Ampholyte
limb	the circumference: the area surrounding the disc.
atp	An adenine-containing nucleoside triphosphate that releases free energy when its phosphate bonds are hydrolyzed
dna topoisomerase	An enzyme that changes the superhelix density of supercoiled DNA.
circumgenital glands	small circular glands with an excretory orifice at tip, disposed in groups about the genital orifice in Diaspinae.
sinistrad	toward the left.
knockout	An alteration of a gene that results in loss of function; a transgenic organism in which a gene has been inactivated.
phthalimides	the protectant fungicides: Captan, Captafol/Difolatan, Folpet/Phaltan.
ginkgo biloba	A plant that has been shown to have certain antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and neuroprotective properties
positional cloning	Isolation and cloning of the normal form of a mutation-defined gene (i.e., a gene identified by genetic analysis of mutants).
systematic	in definite order, or arranged according to a system.
shoot	Usually, the above ground portion of a plant, bearing the leaves
projection formulas	A method for representing molecules to show the configuration of groups around chiral centers; also known as Fischer projection formulas.
beta wave	A type of brain wave; occurs during times of active thinking.
prototroph	A microorganism that is able to grow on minimal medium containing only a carbon source and inorganic salts.
delayed implantation	Embronic diapause in placental mammals
restriction enzymes	Proteins produced by bacteria that break foreign DNA molecules at very specific sites; Enzymes that cut DNA
pendulous	drooping: hanging free, attached to one end only.
dextrose	n
antibiotic	A substance usually produced by a fungus or bacteria that can kill other microorganisms
derived character	A character (or character state) that has evolved from an antecedent (ancestral) character or state.
opposable thumb	An arrangement of the fingers such that the thumb can touch the ventral surface of the fingertips of all four fingers.
sh2 domain	Src homology region 2, a protein domain present in many signaling proteins; it binds a short amino acid sequence containing a phosphotyrosine.
micromanipulator	Instrument used with a microscope for manipulating small instruments and specimens.
solute	a substance that is dissolved in a solution
gustatory	Having to do with taste.
substrate feeder	An organism that lives in or on its food source, eating its way through the food.
logistic population growth	A model describing population growth that levels off as population size approaches carrying capacity.
homogenous	similar in structure due to a community of descent.
immune deficiency disease	A disorder characterized by the suppression of the immune reaction.
micelle	An aggregate of lipids in which the polar head groups face outward and the hydrophobic tails face inward; no solvent is trapped in the center.
canopy	The uppermost layer of vegetation in a terrestrial biome.
topsoil	A mixture of particles derived from rock, living organisms, and humus.
pedate	foot-bearing, or having feet.
epidemiology	The study of the spread of diseases within and between populations.
phytochrome	A plant chromoprotein involved in the regulation of light-dependent growth processes.
burrowing animal	In aquatic forms, a bottom-dweller that moves through soft benthic sediments.
t cell	A T-lymphocyte.
radioimmunometric	a measurement using radioimmunology, a system for testing antigen antibody reactions using radioactive labelling of antigen or antibody to detect the extent of the reaction
trophic structure	The different feeding relationships in an ecosystem, which determine the route of energy flow and the pattern of chemical cycling.
compound	made up of many similar or dissimilar parts.
active site	The region of an enzyme molecule that contains the substrate binding site and the catalytic site for converting the substrate(s) into product(s).
simulation	An emulation of biological systems with predictive value for research; a virtual biological system.
cancellate	cross-barred: latticed: with longitudinal lines decussate by transverse lines.
carbohydrate	member of the group of energy-rich foods that includes sugar and starch.
calvin cycle	The cyclic pathway used by plants to fix carbon dioxide and produce triose phosphates.
cam photosynthesis	See Crassulacean acid metabolism.
energy transfer	The transfer of energy from one chromophore to another by a process dependent on the distance between the two molecules
differential medium	A medium which is used to differentiate different types of microorganisms based on their different e.g
dntp	Abbreviation for a deoxynucleoside 5'-triphosphate when the exact deoxynucleotide (typically dATP, dTTP, dGTP, or dCTP) is unspecified or unknown.
electron	Negatively charged subatomic particle that generally occupies orbitals surrounding the nucleus in an atom.
autotrophic nitrification	Oxidation of ammonium to nitrate through the combined action of two chemoautotrophic organisms, one forming nitrite from ammonium and the other oxidizing nitrite to nitrate.
segregation	See Mendel's first law.
chlorophylls	A group of light-absorbing porphyrin pigments that are critical in photosynthesis
drill core	n
modifier	A gene that alters the effect of another.
x-ray crystallography	A technique that depends on the diffraction of an X-ray beam by the individual atoms of a molecule to study the three-dimensional structure of the molecule.
accessory	added, or in addition to.
calcium channel	A channel in the membrane of a neuron that allows calcium to pass through; essential in sending information through and between neurons.
red blood cell	A hemoglobin-containing cell in the blood of an animal
cingula -um	a colored band or bands.
gart	Genotypic Antiretroviral Resistance Test
osmoconformity	See osmotic conformity.
5-lipoxygenase	An enzyme that leads to the production of leukotrienes, which are chemicals that contribute significantly to inflammation.
reductive dechlorination	Removal of Cl as Cl- from an organic compound by reducing the carbon atom from C-Cl to C-H.
pfge	See Pulsed field gel electrophoresis.
cystamine	A TGase inhibitor shown to be a potential treatment for HD.
polyploid	Describes a cell or an organism that contains more than two sets of homologous chromosomes.
prochlorophyte	A prokaryotic oxygenic phototroph that contains chlorophylls a and b but which lack phycobilins.
hormone	General term for any extracellular substance that induces specific responses in target cells
cell theory	understanding that all living things are composed of cells and that all cells come from preexisting cells.
physiology	The study of the functions of an organism.
fast track product	A potential drug in development that is believed to meet an unfulfilled medical need and is required urgently, so that the process of testing in clinical trials and FDA evaluation of the results is sped up.
crustaceous	hard, like the shell of a crab.
diffraction pattern	Pattern set up by wave interference between radiation transmitted or scattered by different parts of an object.
dengue	The rate or speed of transmission of viral infections depends on factors that include population density, the number of susceptible individuals, (i.e., those not immune),
cerebellum	Part of the vertebrate hindbrain located dorsally; functions in unconscious coordination of movement and balance.
sticky ends	Two DNA ends in the same DNA molecule, or in different molecules, with short overhanging single-stranded segments that are complementary to one another, facilitating ligation of the ends; also known as cohesive ends.
joule	A unit of work or energy equal to 10,000,000 ergs; 1000 joules equals 1 kilojoule (kJ).
moderator	material that slows the neutrons in a nuclear reactor, making them more effective in producing fission
heterotroph	An organism that requires complex nutrient molecules, such as glucose, as a source of energy and carbon.
urethra	The duct that carries nitrogenous waste from the bladder to the outside.
glycogen	A substance made up of sugars
siphonophora	= Coccinellidae; the term is preoccupied in the Coelenterates.
amino acid	any of a class of 20 molecules that combine to form proteins in living things.
chiral resolution	The resolution of a mixture of D- and L-enantiomers of a chiral compound.
adenine	A purine base in DNA and RNA.
larynx	The voice box, containing the vocal cords.
electron-transport chain	Series of electron carrier molecules along which electrons move from a higher to a lower energy level to a final acceptor molecule
allometric equation	Two variables, X and Y, are related in an allometric manner when Y = aXb (b ¬ 1)
ingestion	The intake of water or food particles by "swallowing" them, taking them into the body cavity or into a vacuole
mutant	An organism with an altered base sequence in one or several genes
ketone bodies	Acetoacetate, D-βhydroxybutyrate, and acetone; watersoluble fuels normally exported by the liver but overproduced during fasting or in untreated diabetes mellitus.
melanocyte	Cell that produces the dark pigment melanin
griseus	light gray; a mixture of white and black [gray].
neuron	Cell with long processes specialized to receive, conduct, and transmit signals in the nervous system.
class	A taxonomic grouping of related, similar orders; category above order and below phylum.
biogeochemistry	Study of microbially mediated chemical transformations of geochemical interest, e.g
lip	Lymphoid Interstitial Pneumonitis
x chromosome	The name given in various groups to a sex chromosome usually present twice in the homogametic sex (XX) and only once in the heterogametic sex (XY or XO).
pluton	n
dynamic stability hypothesis	The idea that long food chains are less stable than short chains.
acetylcholine	Neurotransmitter that functions at a class of chemical synapses known as cholinergic synapses
whitlows	= paronychia; q.v.
biosphere	Zone incorporating all forms of life on earth
macromolecule	Molecule such as a protein, nucleic acid, or polysaccharide with a molecular mass greater than a few thousand daltons.
cox-2 inhibitors	Drugs that selectively inhibit the COX-2 enzymes and have minimal or no effects on the activities of the COX-1 enzymes.
att site	See attachment site.
sagittal plane	the longitudinal vertical plane which divides an animal into right and left halves.
taqman assay	Also known as 5'-nuclease assay
mesophyll	The ground tissue of a leaf, sandwiched between the upper and lower epidermis and specialized for photosynthesis.
purpureous -eus	purple [mauve].
adaptive radiation	A common biogeographical pattern seen on remote islands in which a particular group of organisms is found in a wide variety of niches including many not normally inhabited by the group
major histocompatibility complex	Complex of highly polymorphic genes in vertebrates
retina	a light-sensitive area, as in the subsporangial vesicle of Pilobolus.
leukemia	Cancer of white blood cells.
sequencing	Determination of the order of 
pr toxin	a toxin produced by Penicillium roquefortii fortunately not during the ripening of blue cheeses.
anaerobic respiration	An electron transport system in which substances other than oxygen serve as the terminal electron acceptor (for example, sulfates, nitrates, methane).
cascade	A sequence of successive activation reactions.
polarity	(1) In chemistry, the nonuniform distribution of electrons in a molecule; polar molecules are usually soluble in water
photoaffinity label	A label with a photoactivatable group that forms a covalent link with an adjacent protein upon illumination.
heuristic algorithm	A programming strategy based on trial-and-error methods and feedback evaluation.
myxamoeba	amoeboid stage of Myxostelida, feeds phagotrophically and later becomes a plasmodium.
hydrocarbon	Compound that has only carbon and hydrogen atoms
chlorofluorocarbons	Chemical substances used in refrigerators, air conditioners, and solvents that drift to the upper stratosphere and dissociate
fossil	A preserved remnant or impression of an organism that lived in the past
isolate	to separate out from others; occurring alone.
sinuato-convex	sinuate and convex.
outcrossing	Mating between unrelated individuals that is more frequent than would be expected on the basis of chance.
n terminus	see amino terminus
ferreous -eus	the metallic gray of polished iron.
dose response	A relationship in which a change in the amount, intensity, or duration of an exposure is associated with either an increase or decrease in risk of a specified health outcome.
mast cell	A type of connective tissue cell adjoining blood vessels throughout the body
hydrogen ion	A single proton with a charge of 1+
nucleophilic group	An electron-rich group that tends to attack an electron-deficient nucleus.
replication	The process by which DNA copies itself before cell division
iptg	An abbreviation for isopropyl-ß-D-thiogalactoside
nsaids	Abbreviation for nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.
clathrin	A fibrous protein that with the aid of assembly proteins polymerizes into a lattice-like network at specific regions on the cytosolic side of a membrane, thereby forming a clathrin-coated pit, which buds off to form a vesicle
exclusive events	Events for which the occurrence of one precludes the occurrence of the other.
buffer reaction	A chemical reaction in a solution that tends to stabilize the pH of the solution by removing H+ from the solution when H+ is added by some external process and by adding H+ to the solution when H+ is removed by an external process.
desmosome	A “spot weld” type of junction between two adjacent cells in which protein filaments intermingle across the space between the cells, thereby strengthening and stabilizing the morphological arrangement of the cells.
laurasia	The supercontinent in the Northern Hemisphere (comprising what is now North America, Greenland, Europe, and parts of Asia) formed from the breakup of Pangaea about 180 million years ago.
dibasic cleavage site	A site within proteins specifically recognized and cleaved by endopeptidases.
gutta	a light spot on a dark ground.
selectively permeable	the characteristic of allowing only certain substances from the outside environment to enter the cell
quiescent	Referring to a cell that has exited the cell cycle and is in the G0 state.
embryo splitting	Dividing an embryo microsurgically into equal halves to produce identical twins.
hypermorphosis	An evolutionary increase in the duration of ontogenetic development, resulting in features that are exaggerated compared to those of the ancestor.
gastrointestinal	Relating to the stomach and intestines.
zootype	A proposed stage in development characterized by the expression of a particular set of genes, that governs spatial development in multicellular animals.
nuclear inclusions	Another term for neuronal inclusions.
transcription terminator	A nucleotide sequence that acts as a signal for termination of transcription
equilibrium	State in which gene and genotypic frequencies remain constant in a population from one generation to the next.
atomoxetine	The first non-stimulant drug approved for the treatment of ADHD
enzyme	A protein that triggers or "catalyzes" a biochemical reaction.
density-independent factors	Any factor influencing population regulation that acts to reduce population by the same percentage, regardless of size.
rectangular	in the form of a right or rectangle.
lipid	A small water-insoluble biomolecule generally containing fatty acids, sterols, or isoprenoid compounds.
false truffle	a hypogeous, ectomycorrhizal gasteromycete, e.g., Rhizopogon.
neotropical	that part of the earth's surface embraced in the greater part of Mexico, West Indies and South America.
drug disposition	Drug disposition refers to all processes involved in the absorption, distribution metabolism and excretion of drugs in a living organism.
stratigraphy	n
poiseuille equation	An equation that describes the quantitative relation between the rate of flow of fluid through a horizontal tube and factors such as pressure, luminal radius, and length
celecoxib	A drug that selectively inhibits COX-2 enzymes.
genicular arc	Orthoptera; a curved dark marking on the posterior knee-joint.
binding energy	The energy derived from noncovalent interactions between enzyme and substrate or receptor and ligand.
uncoupling of oxidative phosphoryl-ation	The state of making little or no ATP from the energy that is released by the transport of electrons through the electron-transport chain.
carotenoids	Major group of accessory pigments in plants; includes beta carotene
processivity	The ability of an enzyme to continue to act on a polynucleotide for a long distance without dissociating.
aerotolerant	Ability of an anaerobic microorganism to grow in air, usually poorly, especially after initial anaerobic isolation.
zootype	A hypothetical pattern of gene expression shared across all animal phyla.
filter feeder	An animal that obtains its food by filtering suspended food particles from water.
dominant	Describing an allele whose phenotype is expressed regardless of whether the organism is homozygous or heterozygous for that allele.
activation energy	The energy required to raise a molecule to its transition state to undergo a chemical reaction.
fluviatile	inhabiting the margins of running streams.
stablizing selection	Natural selection that favors intermediate variants by acting against extreme phenotypes.
areolate	with small defined areas, like a network.
dna-only transposon	Type of transposable element that exists as DNA throughout its life cycle
melanin	absorbs ultraviolet light and protects the skin from damage
zona pellucida	An extracellular layer of glycoproteins secreted by a primary oocyte.
amyloid fibrils	Another term for beta-amyloid fibrils.
chromosome banding	A chromosome identification method based on the production of a band pattern by staining.
isoprenoid	Member of a large family of lipid molecules with a carbon skeleton based on multiple five-carbon isoprene units
free energy	A measure of the potential energy of a system, which is a function of the enthalpy (H) and entropy (S).
whey	The fluid protion of milk that separates from curd.
aldehyde	A molecule containing a doubly bonded oxygen and a hydrogen attached to the same carbon atom.
agarose gel	A gel, made of an uncharged agarose polymer, that is typically used to separate nucleic acids and other biomolecules by size via electrophoresis.
virulence gene	Slang for a gene encoding a virulence factor.
family	taxonomic group above genus, but below order; suffix is -aceae.
computational chemistry	Computer-based modeling and prediction of the structure of chemical compounds most likely to bind a protein drug target
substrate	Molecule on which an enzyme acts.
procaryote	An organism lacking a nuclear membrane and certain organelles such as mitochondria
replication	The process of duplicating a DNA molecule.
upper-critical temperature	In a homeotherm, the ambient temperature that represents the upper limit of the thermoneutral zone
intertidal	The coastal zone measuring from the lowest to the highest tide mark
semi-conservative replication	Model of DNA replication in which one of two original strands of DNA is retained in the parent cell, while the other is incorporated into the daughter cell.
phanerozoic	n
specimen	object being viewed through a microscope.
erythropoiesis	Production of red blood cells.
staminate	Referring to the stamen
temperature-sensitive allele	Expressed only at certain temperatures.
catarrhine primates	KAT-uh-rine/ Old World monkeys, apes, and human beings.
coiled coil	The form of the DNA helix in vivo, in which DNA structures are twisted around each other.
blastocyst	A hollow sphere of cells formed in early mammalian development that implants in the uterus
circadian rhythm	An endogenous rhythm with a period of about a day (ca
renal system	Part of the metabolic system; responsible for the regulation of bodily fluids and the elimination of wastes.
annulus	a ring encircling a joint, segment, spot or mark; sometimes applied to the inner ring encircling the mouth opening.
dense	thickly crowded together.
base	A compound, usually containing nitrogen, that can accept a proton (H+)
oceanic crust	n
cheminformatics	Informatics technologies that integrate chemical data with analytic and molecular design tools
molecular weight	See Gram molecular weight.
directional selection	Selection favoring one extreme phenotype.
cohesion	The force that holds molecules of the same substance together
metabolism	n
metabolic pathway	A sequence of enzyme-catalyzed reactions that convert a precursor substance to one or more end products.
clones	The descendants of a single cell.
continental drift	The movement, over time, of large landmassestectonic plateson the earth's surface relative to each other
habitat	The natural environment/area/location in which where an organism normally grows.
epidemiology	The study of the incidence and prevalence of disease in populations.
cristulate	with little crescent-like ridges or crests.
spider cell	A type of neuroglial cell in the central nervous system that helps support other nerve cells
positive feedback	A physiological control mechanism in which a change in some variable triggers mechanisms that amplify the change.ex
mushroom	A filamentous fungus that produces large, sometimes edible structure, called fruiting body.
hormesis	concept that low doses of a harmful substance (such as radiation) may actually be benefi- cial
optical fiber	A glass or plastic fiber surrounded by a material with a lower index of refraction
glycosidic linkage	A covalent bond formed between two monosaccharides by a dehydration reaction.
secondary structure	periodic, localized arrangement of the backbone segments of a protein chain
eurypterid	An extinct carnivorous cheliceriform also called a water scorpion
spongy mesophyll	Loosely arranged photosynthetic cells located below the palisade mesophyll cells in a leaf.
triacylglycerol	A fat or oil; a lipid composed of glycerol esterified with three fatty acids
cervix	The lower neck of the
vaccine	Material used to induce specific protective immunity against a pathogen.
gene	Region of DNA that controls a discrete hereditary characteristic, usually corresponding to a single protein or RNA
adenosine diphosphate	The nucleotide formed by adding a pyrophosphate group to the 5'-OH group of adenosine.
stigma	The part of the pistil that receives the pollen grain.
climate	The long-term prevailing weather in an area that is largely determined by temperature and precipitation.
t-snare	see SNAREs
bac	An acronym for Bacterial Artifical Chromosome
cilia	Pleural of cillium.
substrate	"Supporting surface" on which an organism grows
net metabolic water production	The production of metabolic water by a process minus the losses of water that are obligatory for that process to take place.
septicemia	Infection of the bloodstream by microorganisms.
ki'	the affinity of the inhibitor for the enzyme-substrate complex.
shii-take	Lentinus edodes; a domesticated edible agaric used in Japanese and Chinese cuisine; the fungus is grown on logs of Fagaceae (oak, beech).
centrifugal selection	See Disruptive selection.
catadromous	Relating to an aquatic animal that undergoes most of its growth in freshwater but enters seawater to breed.
active site	The specific portion of an enzyme that attaches to the substrate by means of weak chemical bonds.
virescent or viridescent	greenish or becoming green.
dietary supplement	vitamins, minerals, amino acids, enzymes, herbs, and other botanicals
phototropism	The bending of a plant toward or away from light
tumor	An abnormal mass of undifferentiated cells within a multicellular organism
aliquot	A representative sample of a larger quantity.
epizootic	an unnecessary coining meaning an EPIDEMIC among animals.
polypeptide	A linear polymer of amino acids held together by peptide linkages
unsaturated	In lipid chemistry, characterized by one or more double bonds between carbon atoms in a carbon chain.
gene testing	examining a sample of blood or other body fluid or tissue for biochemical, chromosomal, or genetic markers that indicate the presence or absence of genetic disease.
luciferase	A mono-oxygenase enzyme that catalyzes bioluminescent reactions
antigenic determinant	The portion of an antigen that interacts with an immunoglobulin or T cell receptor.
filtrate	See ultrafiltrate.
monolayer	A single layer of oriented lipid molecules.
rudiment -any	the beginning of any structure or part before it has developed.
adipose tissue	A connective tissue that insulates the body and serves as a fuel reserve; contains fat -storing cells called adipose cells.
colligative properties	Properties of solutions that depend on the number of solute particles per unit volume; for example, freezing-point depression.
proteolytic enzyme	see protease
cellulose	complex carbohydrate of which plant cell walls are made.
auxillary chromosome	Former name for an unpaired sex chromosome
acid anhydride	literally "an acid without water"
virulence factor	Any gene product which enhances the ability of an organism to cause disease.
reverse transcriptase	Enzyme similar to DNA polymerase, but which uses an RNA strand as a template.
glycolysis	Reactions of the Embden-Meyerhof pathway in which glucose is oxidized to pyruvate.
caspase	Enzyme that cleaves other proteins and regulates apoptosis
mutualistic associatons	Relationships where one organism shelters another, two organisms exchange resources, or tighter dependencies evolve, such as coevolved relationships between specialized pollinators and flowers
channelled	a surface, with deep grooves or channels.
molecule	a very small particle of a substance made of two or more atoms held together by chemical bonds.
ideal gas law	See universal gas law.
peptidoglycan	The structural component of most bacterial cell walls.
cervical	relating or belonging to the neck.
sub-sellate	nearly like or approaching the form of a saddle.
convergence	The endpoint of an iterative or recursive algorithm
hermaphrodite	An individual that possesses both ovaries and testes
carotenoids	Lipid-soluble pigments that are made from isoprene units.
incomplete dominance	A type of inheritance in which F1 hybrids have an appearance that is intermediate between the phenotypes of the parental varieties
fungus	Kingdom of eucaryotic organisms that includes the yeasts, molds, and mushrooms
cretaceous western interior seaway	n
oral	pertaining to the mouth.
substituent	atom or functional group substituted for a hydrogen atom
suspension feeder	An aquatic animal, such as a clam or a baleen whale, that sifts small food particles from the water.
convergence	Coming together
luminal	Related to the lumen.
protomer	A subunit of an oligomeric protein.
glans penis	The head end of the penis.
simulation model	A model in which the relationships among the variables are programmed into a computer for analysis.
cladistics	A mode of classification based principally on grouping taxa by their shared possession of similar ("derived") characters that differ from the ancestral condition.
light reactions	The reactions of photosynthesis in which solar energy drives the synthesis of ATP and NADPH.
plexuses	Plural form of plexus.
eustele	When a plant's vascular tissue develops in discrete bundles, it is said to have a eustele
fuliginous -osus	sooty or smoky brown [Van Dyke brown + a little black].
chemolithotroph	Organism that obtains energy from the oxidation of inorganic compounds and uses inorganic compounds as electron donors.
snrnp	Abbreviation for Small Ribonuclear Particle.
selection index	Procedure used to find appropriate weights for records (one or more traits) of an individual and its relatives and to combine information into a single value to rank individuals for selection.
stachybotryotoxin	a mycotoxin produced by the hyphomycete, Stachybotrys, growing on hay; implicated in serious poisoning of horses.
osmosis	the passive transport of water; diffusion of water across a selectively permeable membrane; the direction of osmosis is determined only by a difference in total solute concentration ; the kind of solutes in the solution do not matter
stress response	A set of nerve cell and endocrine responses that are elicited in response to a stressor to help restore homeostasis.
hypothesis	A concept or idea that can be falsified by various scientific methods.
lectotype	a co-type chosen, subsequently to the original description, to take the place which in other cases a holotype occupies.
homologous structures	Homologous structures are structures in different species that may have different functions and yet the structures have a common and deep developmental origin
thigmotropism	An orientation toward or away from a touch stimulus
data cleaning	Computational processing to remove noise and artifacts from digital data prior to storage.
low-density lipoprotein	A cholesterolcarrying particle in the blood, made up of cholesterol and other lipids surrounded by a single layer of phospholipids in which proteins are embedded
bilateral symmetry	Instances in which the left and right sides of a longitudinal (sagittal) plane that runs through an organism's midline are approximately mirror images of each other.
knowledge mining	The extraction of useful knowledge from data patterns that have been rendered meaningful by the integration of information derived from external sources.
dejectamenta	the excrement or excretion.
decaliter	/DEK-ə-LEET-er/ n
abo blood groups	Genetically determined classes of human blood that are based on the presence or absence of carbohydrates A and B on the surface of red blood cells
diffraction	The bending of light caused by the presence of an object.
clavate	clubbed: thickening gradually toward the tip.
desert	A terrestrial biome characterized by very low precipitation.
climax	Most advanced successional community of plants capable of development under, and in dynamic equilibrium with, the prevailing environment.
transcription factor	Term loosely applied to any protein required to initiate or regulate transcription in eucaryotes
redox reaction	A chemical reaction involving the transfer of one or more electrons from one reactant to another; also called oxidation-reduction reaction.
normalizer	Used in both absolute and relative quantification studies to normalize quantitative results of test samples in such a way that the data becomes biologically meaningful.
apical meristem	Embryonic plant tissue in the tips of roots and in the buds of shoots that supplies cells for the plant to grow in length.
circadian oscillator	The biological clock that times a circadian rhythm.
nitrifying bacteria	Microorganisms that restock nitrogenous minerals in the soil by converting nitrogen to ammonia
glyoxylate cycle	A variant of the citric acid cycle, for the net conversion of acetate into succinate and, eventually, new some
anadromous	Relating to an aquatic animal that undergoes most of its growth in seawater but enters freshwater to breed.
peri-	round about
leaky mutation	A nucleotide substitution that changes the amino acid sequence of a protein that results in partial loss of its activity.
backcross	A mating between an F1 or F1' individual to one of its parents (P1 or P2) or to another individual that is genetically identical to one of its parents
scaphiform	boat-shaped.
nucleation	Critical stage in the assembly of a polymeric structure, such as a microtubule, at which a small cluster of monomers aggregates in the correct arrangement to initiate rapid polymerization
ecosytems	Interacting systems of organisms living in a particular area and the physical environment with which they interact such as air, soil, water and sunlight.
bottleneck effect	Genetic drift resulting from the reduction of a population, typically by a natural disaster, such that the surviving population is no longer genetically representative of the original population.
reclivate	curved into a convex, then into a concave line.
tertiary structure	Irregular contortions of a protein molecule due to interactions of side chains involved in hydrophobic interactions, ionic bonds, hydrogen bonds, and disulfide bridges.
sodium selenite	A chemical form of selenium used for its antioxidant effects.
micropyle	The part of the ovule where the pollen tube accesses the embryo sac.
in vitro	Latin phrase for "in glass"; in a test tube or other artificial environment, as opposed to inside a living organism.
eubacteria	An old term for the Bacteria
hepatocyte	Liver cell.
bacterial artificial chromosome	Cloning vector that can accommodate large pieces of DNA up to 1 million base pairs.
species-area curves	The result of plotting the species richness of a particular sample against that area of that sample which reveals that as the size of a natural area increases, the number of species in that area increases as well.
hydrophobic	Not interacting effectively with water; in general, poorly soluble or insoluble in water
oviposition	the act of depositing the eggs.
primary immune response	Adaptive immune response to an antigen that is made on first encounter with that antigen.
distychus	bipartite: separated into two parts.
nuclear envelope	double membrane perforated by pores which regulate entry and exit of certain macromolecules and particles
integument	The skin or outer surface of an animal
cerebral hemisphere	The right or left side of the vertebrate brain.
meson	the middle plane of the body.
correlation	Standardized measure of the degree of association between two characteristics.
resection	surgical removal
esker	n
pre-clinical development	The testing of a lead compound before clinical trials start
western blot	See immunoblot.
address-message concept	Address-message concept refers to compounds in which part of the molecule is required for binding (address) and part for the biological action (message).
fat	triglyceride that is solid at room temperature
independent variable	In an experiment, when one factor is manipulated, a second factor responds
coenzyme	An organic molecule that associates with enzymes and affects their activity.
germ line	A group of cells that contain the organism's genome and give rise to the reproductive cells.
cell adhesion molecule	Protein on the surface of an animal cell that mediates cell–cell binding or cell–matrix binding.
quaternary structure	The fourth level of protein structure
icosahedral symmetry	The symmetry displayed by a regular polyhedron that is composed of 20 equilateral triangular faces with 12 corners.
mid-intestine	= mid-gut.
electrophoresis	A method of separating DNA fragments of different lengths by placing them in agarose gel and running electric current through the gel.
glycolipid	A lipid containing a carbohydrate group.
coupled reactions	Two chemical reactions that have a common intermediate and thus a means of energy transfer from one to the other.
panduriform	violin shaped: oblong, with rounded ends, medially constricted.
biomolecule	An organic compound normally present as an essential component of living organisms.
continental crust	The Earth's crust that includes both the continents and the continental shelves.
antagonistic selection	A source of natural selection that opposes another source of selection on a trait.
basic	A compound that produces an excess of hydroxyl (OH ) ions when dissolved in water
hemopoiesis	Generation of blood cells, mainly in the bone marrow.
myocardium	The muscle tissue of a heart.
helocerous	with clavate antennae.
cascade	the order of events that are hypthothsized to occur in a disease process, each step involving a certain set of molecules that regulate the molecules in the next step.
specific heat	the amount of heat that must be absorbed lost for one gram of a substance to change its temperature by one degree
missense mutation	The most common type of mutation, a base-pair substitution in which the new codon makes sense in that it still codes for an amino acid.
clonal selection theory	Theory that explains how the adaptive immune system can respond to millions of different antigens in a highly specific way
avidin	A protein that binds biotin with a very high affinity
polymer	A large molecule formed by polymerization of monomeric units.
phospholipid	A compound consisting of two fatty acid chains linked to a glycerol molecule
stratified	arranged or made up in layers.
genome	all the genetic material in the chromosomes of a particular organism.
monotremes	A group of primitive mammals restricted to the Australian region that are characterized by laying eggs
iteroparity	A type of reproductive life history in which individuals are physiologically capable of two or more separate bouts of reproduction during their lives
protein chaperones	Molecules that discriminate between slowly-folding and misfolded proteins and localize with aggregates to inhibit their formation.
molecule	A particle made up of two or more atoms joined by covalent bonds or ionic attractions.
gradient	Changes in the amount of a substance as it is displaced from its source.
deliquesce	/del-lə-KWESS/ v
c-terminus	The end of the amino acid chain that makes up a protein that is terminated by a free carboxyl group (-COOH).
weather	The state of the atmosphere including temperature, rain, cloud cover, wind and humidity.
neritic zone	The shallow region of the ocean overlying the continental shelf.
lipid	A biological molecule that is soluble in organic solvents
oxidation	The process by which a molecule or atom loses an electron
p-type semiconductor	semiconductor that contains freely moving positive charges, or "holes"
anagenesis	The evolution of new species that takes place progressively over time within a single lineage (branch), as opposed to cladogenesis where a group diverges into two or more branches
pre-ocular	see prae-ocular.
active transport	the pumping of a substance across a cellular membrane from a point of lower concentration to one of higher concentration; requires energy.
permease	A protein that catalyzes the transport of a specific small molecule across a membrane.
autotroph	Any organism that is able to manufacture its own food
product	An ending material in a chemical reaction.
fad	The coenzyme of some oxidation-reduction enzymes; it contains riboflavin.
drug***	A drug is any substance presented for treating, curing or preventing disease in human beings or in animals
ecotourism	Travel with the desire to view, sustain, and support natural ecosystems and local cultures.
insertion	the point or place where a part is inserted: a part that is inserted: the act of inserting.
circadian rhythms	regular rhythms of growth and activity, which occur in an approximately 24-hour cycle.
hepatic portal vein	A large circulatory channel that conveys nutrient-laden blood from the small intestine to the liver, which regulates the blood's nutrient content.
primate	A member of the order of mammals that includes anthropoids and prosimians.
aerial hyphae	Hyphae above agar surface.
nuclease	An enzyme which cleaves phosphate-deoxyribose bonds within (endonuclease) or at the end (exonuclease) of a nucleotide sequence
kringle	A conserved protein domain whose 2-D representation resembles a Scandinavian pastry known as a kringle.
bundle of his	In the vertebrate heart, a group of muscle fibers that carry impulses from the atrioventricular node to the walls of the ventricles; the only electrical bridge between the atria and the ventricles.
conjugation	In prokaryotes, transfer of genetic information from a donor cell to a recipient cell by cell-to-cell contact.
caspase-3	A specific type of caspase that is involved in causing cells to undergo apoptosis
continental shelf	n
conjunctiva	A mucous membrane that helps keep the eye moist; lines the inner surface of the eyelid and covers the front of the eyeball, except the cornea.
cushing´s syndrome	A glandular disorder caused by excessive cortisol (glucocorticoids).
bilobalide	A component of the terpenoids that has been shown to have neuroprotective properties though its role in motor nerve cell regeneration.
law of segregation	Genetic factors appear in pairs within an individual
mucopolysaccharide	An older name for a glycosaminoglycan.
pyranose	A simple sugar containing the six-membered pyran ring.
evanescent	short-lived, soon disappearing.
syncline	A fold of rock layers that is convex downwards
biomimicry	The study of natural products that provide solutions to human needs
hydrocortisone	A drug that has much more mineralocorticoid activity than common glucocorticoid drugs and is therefore not suitable for long-term use
anti-terminator	A protein that allows RN polymerase to read through a terminator.
upregulation	An upward shift in the catalytic activity of an enzyme, the rate of functioning of a biochemical pathway, or the rate of some other similar process brought about in a controlled manner by a regulatory system.
homotype	is a specimen named by another than the author after comparison with the type.
spiculiform	like a slender, needle-like process.
cognition	The ability of an animal to separate itself from the immediacy of its environment and to reflect on the past in order to solve future problems
action spectrum	A graph that depicts the relative effectiveness of different wavelengths of radiation in driving a particular process.
acid	A substance that increases the hydrogen ion concentration of a solution.
osmotic pressure	Hydrostatic pressure that must be applied to the more concentrated solution to stop the net flow of water across a semipermeable membrane separating solutions of different concentrations
kilojoule	unit of energy used to measure energy (4.2kJ is the quantity of energy required to raise the temperature of 1000g of water by 1oC)
adult stem cell plasticity	The ability of an adult stem cell from one tissue to generate specialized cells of another tissue (e.g., a blood stem cell that could produce a nerve cell).
affinity	The strength of an interaction between two molecules, such as the binding of an antigen to an antibody.
subcellular membrane	See intracellular membrane.
2d-page	This gel separates proteins on a two-dimensional sheet of gel, first in one direction based on the isoelectric point, then in the other direction based on the molecular weight of the proteins under investigation.
rapid-start complex	The complex that RNA polymerase forms at the promoter site just before initiation.
clone	Population of cells or organisms formed by repeated (asexual) division from a common cell or organism
short cells	cells of a dimorphic plant root exodermis which remain unsuberized long enough to permit ingress by VAM fungi.
sulphureous -eus	bright, sulphur yellow [chrome lemon].
histoplasmosis	deep-seated mycosis of humans caused by Histoplasma capsulatum (Hyphomycetes); common in the Mississippi Valley.
saprophyte	Organism which feeds on dead and decaying organisms, allowing the nutrients to be recycled into the ecosystem
ionophore	A compound that binds one or more metal ions and is capable of dif fusing across a membrane, carrying the bound ion.
radioactivity	Emission of radiation by certain elements as their atomic nuclei undergo changes.
genotyping	Determining the genetic makeup of an organism.
van der waals attraction	Type of (individually weak) noncovalent bond that is formed at close range between nonpolar atoms.
calcite	KAL-sight/ A form of calcium carbonate.
antagonism	A type of influence of one substance (such as a hormone) in relation to another in which one opposes the action of the other on a target tissue.
rhizoid	Long tubular single cell or filament of cells that anchors bryophytes to the ground
dilation	an expansion or widening.
open system	A system that exchanges matter and energy with its surroundings
template	A single strand of DNA or RNA whose nucleotide sequence acts as a guide for the synthesis of a complementary strand.
hotspot	n
psychiatric	related to a set of mental, emotional, or behavioral disorders
secondary immune response	Adaptive immune response to an antigen that is made on a second or subsequent encounter with a given antigen
enzyme	complex protein which helps to speed biochemical reactions
split gene	An interrupted gene.
indel	A region of DNA that is present on the chromosome of an organism (Insertion) but absent from closely related organisms (Deletion).
binding site	A region on the surface of one molecule (usually a protein or nucleic acid) that can interact with another molecule through noncovalent bonding.
adaptation	The change in the response of a system over time; functional or structural changes that allow an organism to respond to changes in the environment.
2-dg 2-deoxy-d-glucose.	A substance that helps induce autophagy and thus decrease huntingtin protein aggregation
allochthonous	Refers to something formed elswhere than its present location
metastasis	Spread of tumor cells from their site of origin and establishment of areas of secondary growth.
ppm	parts per million; a measure of concentration.
pathogen	A microorganism or other agent that causes disease.
filamentous	In the form of very long rods, many times longer than wide.
genetic distance	A measure of the divergence among populations based on their differences in frequencies of given alleles.
gland	a cellular sac which separates or secretes from the blood specific portions to produce characteristic products - e.g
scrapie	A common transmissible spongiform encephalopathy (TSE) in sheep and goats.
free radicals	Atoms or molecules that are highly reactive with other cellular structures because they contain unpaired electrons; free radicals can be very harmful to cells.
epididymis	A duct from each testicle, with parts called the head, body, and tail, that stores and transports sperm to the vas deferens.
reproductive table	An age-specific summary of the reproductive rates in a population
double-blind study	A double-blind study is a clinical study of potential and marketed drugs, where neither the investigators nor the subjects know which subjects will be treated with the active principle and which ones will receive a placebo.
calcaneus	kal-KANE-ee-uhs/ A bone of the tarsus, which in human beings underlies the heel; the heel bone
superoxide anion	A harmful derivative of oxygen capable of oxidative destruction of cell components.
bilateral symmetry	Characterizing a body form with a central longitudinal plane that divides the body into two equal but opposite halves.
mdr-tb	Multi Drug Resistant Tuberculosis
enzyme	a protein that facilitates a specific chemical reaction.
consensus sequence	A nucleic acid sequence in which the base present in a given position is that base most commonly found when many experimentally determined sequences are compared.
back mutation	A reversion event which restores the original DNA sequence.
backcross	A genetic cross between an offspring and one of its parents or an organism genetically identical to one of its parents.
karst	n
oblong	longer than broad.
mutualism	symbiotic relationship in which BOTH organisms benefit
oxidizing agent	The acceptor of electrons in an oxidation-reduction reaction.
phycoerythrin	Red pigment found in cyanobacteria and red algae.
penetrance	Defined as the ratio of individuals who have a disease-causing allele and manifest the disease versus those who have this disease causing allele but do not manifest the associated disease
infumated	clouded.
evolutionarily significant units	Populations of threatened or endangered organisms that need to be saved from extinction.
conidia	see CONIDIUM.
pathogens	Parasites that cause disease or death to their host organism.
gene cloning	The production of multiple copies of a gene.
radionuclide	an unstable form of a chemical element that radioactively decays, resulting in the emission of nuclear radiation
serotonin	A biogenic amine synthesized from the amino acid tryptophan.
fire regime	The characteristic pattern of fire in a particular place.
a priori	Deduced from first principles; without prior knowledge.
monocyte	A leukocyte found in bone marrow and in the circulatory system
glutathione	A water-soluble antioxidant, antitoxin, and enzyme co-factor found in animals, plants, and microorganisms
photolysis	The process by which water is split during the light dependent reactions of photosynthesis
aerobic	Literally means “with air.” generally refers to cellular respiration that requires oxygen
bidirectional replication	Two replication forks proceed in opposite directions from the same origin of replication
cydariform	globose, but truncated at two opposite sides.
horizontal cell	A neuron of the retina that helps integrate information before it is sent to the brain.
evolution	process by which modern organisms have descended from ancient organisms; any change in the relative frequencies of alleles in the gene pool of a population.
glycosylation	The post-translational addition of carbohydrate groups to a molecule
emery's rule	Social parasites and their hosts share common ancestry and hence are closely related to each other.
odoriferous	diffusing an odor; applied to glands or secreting organs.
vital capacity	The maximum volume of air that a respiratory system can inhale and exhale.
cathode	The negative electrode of an electrophoretic system toward which cations migrate.
acclimatization	The adaptation of an organism to new environmental conditions.
chemotaxis	Directed movement of a cell or organism towards or away from a diffusible chemical.
transition state	Structure that forms transiently in the course of a chemical reaction and has the highest free energy of any reaction intermediate
cofactor	An inorganic ion or a coenzyme required for enzyme activity.
thymine dimer	See pyrimidine dimer.
antiseptic	Compound that stops or inhibits growth of bacteria without necessarily killing them.
primary production	The amount of light energy converted to chemical energy (organic compounds) by autotrophs in an ecosystem during a given time period.
restriction-modification system	A pair of enzymes found in most bacteria (but not eukaryotic cells)
static lines	Lines or wrinkles that remain unchanged, even with dynamic muscle movement.
antimicrobial	Chemical substance, either produced by a microorganism or by synthetic means, that is capable of killing or suppressing growth of microorganisms.
protein module	see module
cytokine	A small soluble protein from human cells in response to bacterial infection; directly or indirectly may induce fever, pain, or T-cell proliferatio; produced by cells other than lymphocytes, usually phagocytic cells.
portfolio effect	If the abundance of different species fluctuates independently, or at least out of phase with one another, then these fluctuations will average each other out, leading to less variation over time in a diverse assemblage.
complementary nucleotides	The bonding preferences of nucleotides, Adenine
telomere	A cap structure at the ends of chromosomes consisting of short repeated sequences with strand asymmetry in GC content, resulting in one G-rich strand and one C-rich strand.
aeroscepsy	The faculty of observing atmospheric changes: supposed to be located in the antenna.
physiotherapy	Another term for physical therapy.
dissect	/də-SECT or DIE-sect/ v
breathing control center	A brain center that directs the activity of organs involved in breathing.
hairpin-mediated polymerase slippage model	A possible explanation for why expansions occur
aquatic	living wholly in water.
conglomerate	A coarse-grained sedimentary rock, with clasts larger than 2 mm.
sickle-cell anemia	A human disease characterized by defective hemoglobin molecules; caused by a homozygous allele coding for the β chain of hemoglobin.
subduction	n
heterodont	An organism with structural and functional differences among its teeth.
decubital	/də-KYOOB-ə-təl/ adj
simple protein	A protein yielding only amino acids on hydrolysis.
strangulate	constricted, as if by bands or cords.
continental rise	n
facial wasting	see Wasting.
biogeochemistry	Study of microbially mediated chemical transformations of geochemical interest, such as nitrogen or sulfur cycling.
cost benefit ratio	The ratio of the cost of an act to its benefit, measured in terms of evolutionary fitness.
terrestrial	living on or in the land; opposed to aquatic.
respiratory chain	The electron transfer chain; a sequence of electron-carrying proteins that transfer electrons from substrates to molecular oxygen in aerobic cells.
antibody	Immunoglobulin molecule which as been coupled with a fluorescent molecule so that it exhibits fluorescence.
clotting	The process of forming lumps in a liquid.
haemolymph	the watery blood or lymph-like nutritive fluid of the lower invertebrates.
analogous	similar in function; but differing in origin and structure: e.g
local signaling molecules	Molecules a released by cells not in a gland that generally travel through the interstitial fluid and have their effect locally
nutrient agar	The solid version of nutrient broth supplemented with agar.
cation exchange	A process in which positively charged minerals are made available to a plant when hydrogen ions in the soil displace mineral ions from the clay particles.
evaporation	The removal of heat energy from the surface of a liquid that is losing some of its molecules
nucleic acid hybridization	Formation of a double-stranded molecule by base pairing between complementary or homologous polynucleotides.
mutarotation	The change in specific rotation of a pyranose or furanose sugar or glycoside accompanying the equilibration of its α- and β-anomeric forms.
optic tract	Fibers of the optic nerve which project visual information mainly to the lateral geniculate body.
memantine	A well-tolerated drug that acts as an NMDA receptor antagonist, preventing glutamate toxicity
caliche	n
exteroreceptor	A sensory receptor that detects stimuli outside the body, such as heat, light, pressure, and chemicals
coniferous forest	A terrestrial biome characterized by long, cold winters and dominated by cone-bearing trees.
lacte	milk-white.
system	an order of arrangement.
hepatocyte	The major cell type of liver tissue.
quantum evolution	A rapid increase in the rate of evolution over a relatively short period of time.
correlate	to bring together into relation or correspondence.
adherence	Refers to the ability of bacteria to adhere (stick) to host surfaces.
biomorphotica	those neuropterous insects in which the pupa is active.
osmotic pressure	the potential pressure developed by a solution separated from pure water by a selectively permeable membrane that permits the passage of water, but not the dissolved substance.
futile cycle	A metabolic cycle that converts energy to heat.
quaternary structure	In a protein, the way in which the different folded subunits interact to form the multisubunit protein.
selection plateau	A phenomenon in which a population ceases to respond to artificial selection.
biological species	A population or group of populations whose members have the potential to interbreed.
local extinction	When a species no longer resides in an area of habitat due to suboptimal conditions.
compound leaves	n
continuous variation	Occurs when the
coprozoic	KAWP-ruh-ZOH-ik/ Living in excrement.
control	Describes the measures taken in a scientific experiment to account for unsuspected effects of anything other than the thing being tested
caspase [6	A member of the caspase family, a groups of enzymes, involved in apoptosis.
dissection	/die-SEX-shən, də-/ n
conditional lethal mutant	A mutant that can grow under one set (permissive) of environmental conditions but dies under different (restrictive or nonpermissive) conditions.
vasocongestion	The filling of a tissue with blood, caused by increased blood flow through the arteries of that tissue.
heteropterous	with wings of different texture in different parts.
fret	Fluorescence resonance energy transfer
lyophilization	freeze-drying, a technique used to preserve fungal cultures in a state of suspended animation.
aerobic	Requiring O2.
immunoglobulin	Any protein that functions as an antibody
oxidation	The process by which electrons are removed from a chemical
evaporative cooling	The property of a liquid whereby the surface becomes cooler during evaporation, owing to a loss of highly kinetic molecules to the gaseous state.
ind	Investigational New Drug
cataract	A clouding of the eye, making it difficult to see.
sievert	international unit equal to 100 rem
adsperse -us	with markings of closely crowded small spots.
lysozyme	An enzyme in sweat, tears, and saliva that attacks bacterial cell walls.
epidermis	The outermost layer of cells or skin
obligate	invariably found in a particular situation; usually used in reference to organisms that must live in intimate association with a living host (cf
antigen	Substance that can incite the production of a specific antibody and that can combine with that antibody.
fungi	The kingdom Fungi are generally multicellular heterotrophs
catenulate	like catenate; but the links are smaller.
dna looping	The interaction of proteins bound at distant sites on a DNA molecule so that the intervening DNA forms a loop.
evolution	A change in gene frequencies over time in a population
biological magnification	A trophic process in which retained substances become more concentrated with each link in the food
parenchymatous	composed of soft cellular and connective tissue.
ligases	A series of enzymes that tie or connect pieces of DNA together based on complementary ends of the DNA strands
prototroph	The parent from which an auxotrophic mutant has been derived
nanotubes	thin, singlewalled tubes that may be synthetic or partially synthetic (bionanotubes)
chalybeous	metallic steel blue.
low-energy phosphate compound	A phosphorylated compound with a relatively small standard free energy of hydrolysis.
x-ray diffraction	The scattering of x-rays from a crystal, resulting in an interference pattern used to determine the structure of the crystal.
founder effect	A cause of genetic drift attributable to colonization by a limited number of individuals from a parent population.
argenteous	silvery.
urethra	A tube that releases urine from the body near the vagina in females and through the penis in males; also serves in males as the exit tube for the reproductive system.
serial dilution	Series of stepwise dilutions (usually in sterile water) performed to reduce the populations of microorganisms in a sample to manageable numbers.
population	Organisms of the same species that occupy the same area.
heme protein	A protein containing a heme as a prosthetic group.
osmolarity	A term used to describe the concentration of a solute in terms of the osmotic pressure it can exert.
nonpolar	Hydrophobic; describing molecules or groups that are poorly soluble in water.
adnate	adjoining; adhering or growing together: closely connected.
aspergilloma	a `fungus ball' composed principally of hyphae of Aspergillus, found in a pre-existing cavity (esp
energy	The capacity to do work (to move matter against an opposing force).
coevolution	The mutual evolutionary influence between two different species interacting with each other and reciprocally influencing each other's adaptations.
cambrian period	The interval between about 545 and 505 million years before the present, marking the plentiful appearance of fossilized organisms with hardened skeletons
additive effect	The magnitude of the effect of an allele on a character, measured as half the phenotypic difference between homozygotes for that allele compared with homozygotes for a different allele.
cell cycle	The orderly sequence of events by which a cell duplicates its contents and divides into two
hydrogen bond	A weak chemical bond between a hydrogen atom and a second, more electronegative element, usually an oxygen or nitrogen atom.
cycle	A recurring sequence of events; e
abiotic	Pertaining to nonliving properties, including light, air, water, nutrients and other physical and chemical properties of an environment.
silvicolous	living in moist, shady woods.
strand-directed mismatch repair	see mismatch repair
ergotamine	a 3-amino acid cyclopeptide derivative of lysergic acid from Claviceps purpurea sclerotia; ergotamine tartrate is used to manage migraine by causing vasoconstriction of cranial arterioles, thereby reducing the pulsation pressure and attendant headache.
cast	Type of fossil preservation where the original material of the fossil has decayed and been replaced later by another material, much the way a plaster cast is made in a mold
glandular	having the character or function of a gland: used as descriptive of specialized hairs, spines or other processes.
directed molecular evolution	A laboratory version of evolution at the molecular level that can produce "designer molecules." A large starting population of molecules (typically nucleic acids) that varies randomly in base sequence and shape is subjected to replication with variation, followed by selection
transposable element	Segment of DNA that can move from one position in a genome to another
independent events	Events for which the probability of one event occurring is not influence by the occurrence of the other event.
aerogenic	gas producing, e.g., aerogenic fermentation.
fad	A coenzyme that participates in oxidation reactions by accepting two electrons from a donor molecule and two H+ from the solution
odonate	bearing toothed mouth parts, like those of dragon flies.
gapdh	Glyceraldehydephosphate dehydrogenase
formulation	When a drug is made up of multiple compounds, the formulation describes the specific recipe for the drug, including which compounds are included and in what proportions.
protein	a) type of organic chemical of which enzymes are composed; b) body-building foodstuff which is digested by pepsin.
zwitterion	A dipolar ion, with spatially separated positive and negative charges.
biophysics	The application of the techniques of physics to biological processes.
dentate gyrus	A part of the hippocampal formation.
checkpoint	A critical control point in the cell cycle where stop and go-ahead signals can regulate the cycle.
impermeable	term used to refer to a structure that does not allow molecules in solution to pass through it.
chimera	kigh-MIR-uh, kuh-/ (1) an organism combining cells from two or more different genetic sources
nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide	A coenzyme that functions as an electron carrier in oxidation/reduction reactions.
noncovalent bond	Any relatively weak chemical bond that does not involve an intimate sharing of electrons
metaphase i	Stage of meiosis I
eukaryote	n
stratum	A layer of sedimentary rock; plural is strata.
induction	(i)The switching on of transcription in a repressed system due to the interaction between the inducer and a regulatory protein
phenylketonuria	A human disease caused by a genetic deficiency in the enzyme that converts phenylalanine to tyrosine
paleoherb	Any member of a group of basal flowering herbs which may be the closest relatives of the monocots
homogeneity chi-square	Chi-square test used to individually test several data sets for fit to an expected ratio or to determine whether different sets of data are homogeneous (give the same results) so that the data sets may be pooled.
acid mine drainage	The process to draw off acidic water from natural mine rich of sulfid e minerals which has been oxidized to sulfuric acid by microbial actions.
perpendicular	upright: at right angles to horizontal.
tubercule -ulum	a small tubercle.
deamination	The enzymatic removal of an amine group, as in the deamination of an amino acid to an alpha keto acid.
endemic	An organism found only in one particular location.
ester	Molecule formed by the condensation reaction of an alcohol group with an acidic group
clavola	see clava.
specialist	Organism which has adopted a lifestyle specific to a particular set of conditions
organism	An individual living thing.
contrast	In relation to microscopes, the ability to distinguish different densities of structures
allosyndesis	Pairing of homologous chromosomes in a allopolyploid which results in chromosomes derived from one parent pairing with chromosomes derived from the other parent.
interferons	A class of glycoproteins with antiviral activities.
polygeny	Most diseases are polygenic, i.e
ontology	A hierarchical organization of concepts, typically used to denote 'more-general-than' and/or 'part-of' relationships.
molecular chaperones	Substances inside the cell that bind and stabilize proteins at intermediate stages of folding, assembly, movement across membranes, and degradation.
primary transcript	The immediate RNA product of transcription before any posttranscriptional processing reactions.
paedogenetic	reproducing in the sexually immature or larval stage.
ribonucleic acid	A chemical found in the 
antibiotic	A substance that interfers with a particular step of cellular metabolism, causing either bactericidal or bacteriostatic inhibition; sometimes restricted to those having a natural biological origin.
ligand	a molecule that binds to the target
carrier	See transporter.
astrocytoma	A tumor arising from astrocytes, glial cells found in the brain.
dark reactions	See carbon fixation reactions.
submitochondrial particle	An inside-out particle formed by the sonication of mitochondria
polyribosome	A complex of an mRNA and two or more ribosomes actively engaged in protein synthesis.
anteroposterior	Describes the axis running from the head to the tail of the animal body.
discrete	distinctly separated.
central nervous system	The division of the
respiratory medium	The source of oxygen
end-product inhibition	See feedback inhibition.
functional groups	A specific configuration of atoms commonly attached to the carbon skeletons of organic molecules and usually involved in chemical reactions.
corridors	Relatively narrow, linear strips of habitat between otherwise isolated habitat patches.
biotin	A vitamin; an enzymatic cofactor involved in carboxylation reactions.
gene library	A collection of cloned DNA fragments that contains all the genetic information of a particular organism.
tethys ocean	n
halophile	A microorganism that grows optimally in a highly saline environment.
reca protein	The protein encoded by the recA gene which is essential for homologous recombination
chi-square test	Statistical procedure used to test degree of association or agreement between observed results and those results expected based on the hypothesis being tested.
compound	A substance formed by two or more elements
sub-	as a prefix, means that the main term is not entirely applicable, but must be understood as modified in some way; e.g
random genetic drift	The random change in frequency of alleles in a population
cometabolism	Transformation of a substrate by a microorganism without deriving energy, carbon, or nutrients from the substrate
monotypical	a genus described from a single species, no other being known; or described from a single specified species with which are associated others believed to be identical in structure: see isotypical and heterotypical.
restricted	held back: confined to a limited area.
metapopulation theory	The theory that local populations of organisms undergo periodic colonization and extinction, but that these local populations are linked to other populations nearby by migration.
hydrogen peroxide	A waste product of the cell that is a dangerous free radical.
unsaturated	Describes a molecule that contains one or more double or triple carbon-carbon bonds, such as isoprene or benzene.
klenow fragment	A proteolytic fragment of DNA polymerase I that contains the DNA polymerase activity and the 3' to 5' proofreading activity but lacks the 5' to 3' exonuclease activity
morgan	100 map units.
equilibrium constant	Ratio of forward and reverse rate constants for a reaction and equal to the association constant
autoclave	Instrument consisting of a double-walled, sealable enclosure in which steam heat at greater than atmospheric pressure is used to sterilize biologically contaminated material.
nuclear localization signal	A short amino acid sequence that functions as a nuclear localization signal.
parkinson's disease	A neurodegenerative disorder that primarily affects one's ability to perform smooth movements
gram stain	A staining method that distinguishes between two different kinds of bacterial cell walls.
parasite	An organism that benefits by living in or on another organism at the expense of the host.
innate immune response	Immune response (of both vertebrates and invertebrates) to a pathogen that involves the pre-existing defenses of the body—the innate immune system—such as barriers formed by skin and mucosa, antimicrobial molecules and phagocytes
activation energy	Extra energy that must be possessed by atoms or molecules in addition to their ground-state energy in order to undergo a particular chemical reaction
arcuate	curved like a bow: = arcuate.
membrane protein	A protein that is associated with a membrane, rather than found free in the cell
active restoration	Accelerating the process or attempting to change the trajectory of succession
turgid	term used to describe a plant cell swollen with water taken in by osmosis.
coccineous	cochineal red; dark red [carmine].
eugenics	The control of individual reproductive choices to achieve a social goal.
cd4	A surface protein, present on most helper T cells, that binds to class II MHC molecules on antigen-presenting cells, enhancing the interaction between the T cell and the antigen-presenting cell.
tryptophan hydroxylase	The rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of serotonin
igneous rock	Any rock solidified from molten or partly molten material.
stringent response	The ability of a bacterium to limit the synthesis of tRNA and rRNA during amino acid starvation
down syndrome	A human genetic disease resulting from having an extra chromosome 21, characterized by mental retardation and heart and respiratory defects.
compound chromosome	Fusion of two separate chromosomes.
hairy	covered or clothed with hair.
terpenoids	A constituent of Ginkgo biloba extract that includes the ginkgolides and the bilobalides.
breeding value	Value of an individual in a breeding program
membrane transport	Movement of molecules across a membrane mediated by a membrane transport protein.
secondary pollutant	pollutant produced from chemical reactions among two or more other pollutants
globular protein	Any protein with an approximately rounded shape
messenger rna	RNA molecule that specifies the amino acid sequence of a protein
fidelity	The degree to which output reflects input
b cell	One of the major types of cells in the immune system
tegument	a covering surface or skin.
chemoautotrophs	Organisms that obtain energy through chemical reactions and build biomass directly from inorganic carbon.
correlative	of a correlated nature; see correlated.
beta sheet	A three-dimensional structure of a protein that takes on a flat, pleated appearance.
porter	A membrane protein that functions to transport substances into and out of the cell.
lysozyme	Enzyme that catalyzes the cutting of polysaccharide chains in the cell walls of bacteria.
multipartite	divided into many parts.
5'-terminus	The end of a polynucleotide which carries the phosphate group attached to the 5' position of the sugar.
immunosuppressant	A drug that suppresses the action of the immune system and is often used after organ transplant surgery to prevent the body from rejecting the organ.
sumo-1	A protein that is responsible for making the mutated huntingtin protein significantly more toxic to nerve cells in the brain.
δg°'	See standard free-energy change.
polyadenylation site	A processing signal at the 3' end of an RNA that specifies the addition of a stretch of adenines.
heat shock protein	Proteins that are synthesized in organisms in response to various environmental stressors (such as extremes in temperature)
mycelium	In fungi, the mass of food absorbing cellular fibers(Hyphae) that make up the main part of the fungus
substrate	The molecule undergoing reaction with an enzyme.
dihybrid cross	A breeding experiment in which parental varieties differing in two traits are mated.
monomer	Small molecular building block that can serve as a subunit, being linked to others of the same type to form a larger molecule (a polymer).
hypnody	lethargy; a condition similar to or identical with hibernation.
primary metabolism	see METABOLISM.
ethics	The science or discipline involving the principles of right versus wrong
permeability	In reference to a cell membrane or epithelium, the ease with which a particular solute can move through it by diffusion, or the ease with which water can move through it by osmosis.
vitamin	An organic molecule that cannot be produced by the body but is needed by the body in trace amounts
intramolecular	Within the same molecule
phase iii clinical trial	The third in a series of studies that test the safety and efficacy of a new drug or treatment in human participants and is only performed once the drug has successfully passed the phase II clinical trial
determinate cleavage	a type of embryonic development in protostomes that rigidly casts the developmental fate of each embryonic cell very early
chromosomes	The self-replicating genetic structures of cells containing the cellular DNA that bears in its 
estuary	n
gibbus	when the whole surface forms a hump or obtuse cone.
tautomer	A nucleic acid base in which a hydrogen atom has moved from one position to another leading to a change in its pairing relationships.
periphyton	Dense strands of algal growth that cover the water surface between the emergant aquatic plants
density shift labeling	The addition of either a heavy or a light isotope to the growth medium which changes the density of the newly synthesized nucleic acids
genetic engineering	Technology used to alter the genetic material of living cells in a way that the cells are capable of producing new substances or performing new functions.
diauxic growth	Biphasic growth on a mixture of two carbon sources in which one carbon source is used up before the other one
polymerase slippage model	A possible model for how expansions occur
anucleate	Lacking a nucleus.
testes	Primary sex organs of the male, producing sperm cells and hormones, particularly testosterone.
photovoltaic cell	a device that converts radiant energy directly to electrical energy
guanine	One of the four nitrogenous bases found in DNA; pairs with the base cytosine; often abbreviated as the letter "G"; see Figure B-3.
mendel's first law	See law of segregation.
terrestrial	Living on land, as opposed to marine or aquatic.
riparian	along the river or along shore.
hypertrophy	The enlargement or overgrowth of a part or organ, not due to tumor formation
hybridization	Pairing of two partly or fully complementary single-stranded nucleotide chains
p53	Tumor suppressor gene found mutated in about half of human cancers
autotroph	An organism that can obtain the energy it needs to stay alive from sources other than the chemical bonds of organic compounds
primary metabolite	A metabolite excreted during the growth phase.
voltage	difference in electrochemical potential between the two electrodes
prokaryote	Microorganism lacking a membrane-bound nucleus to contain its chromosomes.
rubisco	protein which fixes carbon in photosynthetic organisms
genolectotype	the one species of a series selected as the type of the genus in which the describer of the genus placed it, subsequent to the description.
nitrogenase complex	A system of enzymes capable of reducing atmospheric nitrogen to ammonia in the presence of ATP.
screening assay	A test for potential drugs that are available from biotechnology companies and academic laboratories under contract
biotic	Pertaining to living organisms in an environment.
perennating organ	Tissues that give rise to new growth the following season, and are therefore sensitive to climatic conditions.
electrochemical gradient	The sum of the gradients of concentration and of electric charge of an ion across a membrane; the driving force for oxidative phosphorylation and photophosphorylation.
active site	region on an enzyme that can bind with a specific substrate or substrates.
biological species	A population or group of populations within which genes are actually or potentially exchanged by interbreeding, and which are reproductively isolated from other such groups
reduction	The addition of electrons and often hydrogen ions to a substance
afferent arteriole	The blood vessel supplying a nephron.
lymph	The colorless fluid, derived from interstitial fluid, in the lymphatic system of vertebrate animals.
ampicillin	An antibiotic widely used in clinical treatment and rDNA research
homology	Similarity in characteristics resulting from a shared ancestry
nitrifying bacteria	Chemolithotrophs capable of carrying out the transformations from NH3 to NO2- or NO2- to NO3-.
endergonic reaction	A chemical reaction that requires a net energy input and converts more stable reactants into less stable products; not spontaneous.
hepatic portal vessel	A large circulatory channel that conveys nutrient-laden blood from the small intestine to the liver, which regulates the blood's nutrient content.
sympatric speciation	Speciation that occurs between populations occupying the same geographic range.
trisomy 21	Presence of three copies of chromosome 21; in humans, results in Down syndrome.
polymerase	An enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of a polymer by linking together its component monomers.
psychosocial	A term used to describe the interaction between psychological and social aspects of one's life.
exaptation	A structure that evolves and functions in one environmental context but that can perform additional functions when placed in some new environment.
segmentation	An animal body plan in which the organism is subdivided into serially arranged units
two-dimensional gel electrophoresis	Type of electrophoresis in which the protein mixture is run first in one direction and then in a direction at right angles to the first
antiphagocytic	Inhibiting the ability of the phagocyte to ingest bacteria, foreign materials, or other cellular debris.
infundibuliform	funnel-shaped.
discs	the abdominal motor processes of coleopterous larve.
amino terminus	The end of a polypeptide chain that carries a free α-amino group.
recurrence	the reappearance of disease; this can be manifested clinically as findings on the physical examination (e.g
conglobate	gathered together in a ball or sphere.
heme	An iron-porphyrin compound that occurs as a prosthetic group in hemoproteins.
retro-	(prefix) toward back, behind
afebrile	Relating to the absence of fever.
gossypol	A compound that is believed to decrease the presence of beta-amyloid fibrils, but has little or no success in inhibiting huntingtin protein aggregation.
constitutive	Produced in constant amount; opposite of regulated.
ketone	Organic molecule containing a carbonyl group linked to two alkyl groups.
ahcpr	Agency for Health Care Policy and Research
cristae	Infoldings of the inner mitochondrial membrane.
clone	A clone is a population of genetically identical cells produced from a common ancestor
hydrophilic	Literally means water loving and refers to the fact that hydrophilic molecules are attracted to water
glioma	A non-metastatic brain tumor of glial origin.
melanocyte	A skin cell that produces and stores the pigment melanin.
peritubular capillaries	The network of tiny blood vessels that surrounds the proximal and distal tubules in the kidney.
phyllophagous	feeding upon leaf tissue.
yolk	the nutritive matter of an egg as distinguished from the living, formative material; = deutoplasm.
cross reacting material	See CRM.
foundation species	Species that exert influence on a community not through their trophic interactions, but by causing physical changes in the environment
toxigenicity	The degree to which an organisms is able to elicit toxic symptoms.
fuel cell	galvanic cell that produces electricity by converting the chemical energy of a fuel directly into electricity without burning the fuel
minimum viable population	Abbreviated MVP
adrenaline	Hormone released by chromaffin cells (in the adrenal gland) and by some neurons in response to stress
saturation deficit	In air of a particular temperature, the difference between the saturation water vapor pressure characteristic of that temperature and the existing water vapor pressure.
range	The geographical limits of the region habitually traversed by an individual or occupied by a population or species.
ecological niche	The sum total of an organism's utilization of the biotic and abiotic resources of its environment.
boreal	from or belonging to the north: is that faunal region that extends from the polar sea southward to near the northern boundary of the United States and farther south occupies a narrow strip along the Pacific Coast and the higher parts of the Sierra-Cascade, Rocky and Alleghany Mountain ranges; divided into Arctic, Hudsonian and Canadian: see austral and tropical.
transpiration	The evaporative loss of water from a plant.
hla	Human leukocyte antigen; the HLA system is very complex and characterised by extreme polymorphism
malignant tumor	A cancerous tumor that is invasive enough to impair the functions of one or more organs.
strike	The direction or trend of a bedding plane or fault, as it intersects the horizontal.
oxygen regulation	A response in which an animal exposed to a decreasing O2 concentration in its environment maintains a stable rate of O2 consumption.
g1 phase	The first growth phase of the cell cycle, consisting of the portion of interphase before DNA synthesis begins.
filter mating	A method where conjugation between donor and recipient bacteria is done on a millipore filter
declinate -us	a part somewhat bent, the apex downward.
koff	the off-rate associated with the release of inhibitor from an enzyme-inhibitor complex.
human immunodeficiency virus	The retrovirus that causes AIDS, acquired immune deficiency syndrome.
epitoke	In polychaete annelid worms, a specialized reproductive stage that is formed by either transformation of an ordinary individual or budding from an ordinary individual.
primary transcript	An unprocessed RNA molecule which is the direct product of transcription.
double blind	A study in which neither the investigator nor the participant are aware of which treatment a participant is receiving (ie experimental or control)
control	A standard of comparison by which experimental results are evaluated
biomarker	A molecular marker associated with a biological function.
cognate	Describing two biomolecules that normally interact; for example, an enzyme and its normal substrate, or a receptor and its normal ligand.
antagonistic interaction	An interaction between two organisms that benefits one to the detriment of the other.
lysogen	A prokaryote containing a prophage
activity coefficient	The factor by which the numerical value of the concentration of a solute must be multiplied to give its true thermodynamic activity.
tectonic plates	The fairly rigid plates composing the earth's crust whose boundaries are marked by earthquake belts and volcanic chains
ion-exchange resin	A polymeric resinous substance, usually in bead form, that contains fixed groups with positive or negative charge
oesophageal lobes	form posterior portion of brain or tritocerebrum.
electron transport chain	A series of carriers through which electrons are transported from a higher to a lower energy state.
ultrastructure	The detailed structure of a specimen, such as a cell, tissue, or organ, that can be observed only by electron microscopy
reproduction	The manufacture of offspring as part of an organism's life cycle
diplococcus	A pair of cocci.
primary production	The production of organic matter from inorganic chemical precursors
lymphocyte	A type of white blood cell that mediates acquired immunity
hydrocarbon	Any chemical compound containing only carbon and hydrogen elements
creber	closely set.
intestinal caecum	that point of the large intestine in front of the junction with the small intestine.
chromosomal rearrangement	Another term for a chromosomal mutation.
conifer	A gymnosperm whose reproductive structure is the cone
repression	The process by which the synthesis of an enzyme is inhibited by the presence of an external substance, the repressor.
interspecific competition	Competition for resources between plants, between animals, or between decomposers when resources are in short supply.
biomes	Regions of similar climate and dominant plant types.
enterotoxin	A toxin affecting the intestine.
n-terminus	The end of a polypeptide chain that has a free amino acid (-NH2) group.
cytotoxic t cell	A type of lymphocyte that, when activated, kills infected cells, cancer cells, and transplanted cells.
phosphorylation	Formation of a phosphate derivative of a biomolecule, usually 6y enzymatic transfer of a phosphate group from ATP.
isocortex	Another term for neocortex.
acid	Substance that releases protons when dissolved in water, forming a hydronium ion (H3O+).
chela	The claw of an arthropod.
bacteremia	The transient appearance of bacteria in the blood.
c-terminus	The end of a polypeptide chain that has a free carboxylic acid (-COOH) group.
nucleoporin	Any of a number of different proteins that make up nuclear pore complexes.
obsolete	nearly or entirely lost: inconspicuous.
dorsal bristles	see dorso-central.
dose [response relationship	The relationship between the dose of the drug and the changes of symptoms and responses of the body
combinatorial chemistry	A technique for systematically assembling molecular building blocks in many combinations to create thousands of diverse compounds.
malthusian parameter	See Intrinsic rate of natural increase.
choroid	KORE-oid, KORE-ee-oid/ One of the eye's coats
migration	The movement of a cell over a surface.
binding energy	Energy released as weak bonds form between a substrate, enzyme, and cofactor.
nutrition	The study of the chemical components of animal bodies and how animals are able to synthesize those chemical components from the chemical materials they collect from their environments.
dusky	somewhat darkened; pale fuscous.
informational macromolecules	Biomolecules containing information in the form of specific sequences of different monomers; for example, many proteins, lipids, polysaccharides, and nucleic acids.
homing	The ability of an animal to return to its home site after being displaced.
structural formula	A type of molecular notation in which the constituent atoms are joined by lines representing covalent bonds.
avidity	Total binding strength of a polyvalent antibody with a polyvalent antigen.
nephridia	tubular structures functioning as kidneys in Annelids, Mollusks, etc
lipid	A family of compounds that cannot be dissolved or mixed in water
venation	The arrangement and pattern of veins in a leaf.
thyrsus	a cluster.
hamabiosis	see symbiosis.
glycocalyx	General term for polysaccharide components outside the bacterial cell wall
chemosynthetic	The synthesis of organic compounds within an organism, with chemical reactions providing the energy source.
ibuprofen	A compound that is effective for relief of pain, fever and inflammation
enzyme	protein that acts as a biochemical catalyst, influencing the rate of a chemical reaction
paleontology	The study of extinct fossil organisms.
sickle-cell anemia	an inherited, potentially lethal disease in which a defect in hemoglobin, the oxygen-carrying pigment in the blood, causes distortion (sickling) and loss of red blood cells, producing damage to organs throughout the body.
cleidoic egg	kligh-DOE-ik/ A shelled egg permeable only to gases.
transducer	A structure, mechanical or biological that translates one form of energy into electrical energy
anaerobe	An organism which has the ability to grow in the absence of oxygen
signal transduction	The process by which an extracellular signal (chemical, mechanical, or electrical) is amplified and converted to a cellular response.
nitric oxide	Gaseous signal molecule in both animals and plants
sub-fossorial	legs used in digging: yet not greatly modified.
distad	toward the distal end.
multilocular	with many large cells, spaces or cavities.
bioconversion	The conversion of one chemical to another by a living system, such as a bacterial cell.
vibrissae	curved bristles or hairs in some Diptera, situated between the mystax and the antenna: whiskers.
retracted	drawn back; opposed to prominent.
molecular electronics	Electronic devices based on components consisting of individual molecules.
microtubule	Cytoplasmic structure consisting of the protein tubulin and involved in cellular structure and movement.
niacin	A precursor of nicotinamide
homology	Possession by two or more species of a character state derived, with or without modification, from their common ancestor
heredity	Transmission of characters through genetic material from one generation to the next.
plantibody	Antibody produced by genetically engineered plants.
prolonged	extended or lengthened beyond ordinary limits.
antigen-presenting cell	Cell that displays foreign antigen complexed with MHC molecules on its surface.
ab initio gene prediction	The prediction of exon structure within a gene using computational algorithms
ovate	in outline, egg-shaped or oval.
central cell	The female gametophytic cell that develops as the endosperm after fertilization
reproductive variance	Describes the degree of divergence from the mean.
lineage	An evolutionary sequence, arranged in linear order from an ancestral group or species to a descendant group or species (or vice versa).
setiparous	producing hair or sets.
cretaceous period	kruh-TAY-shuhs/ A geologic period that lasted from approximately 145.5 to 65.5 mya
longitudinal	in the direction of the long axis.
t cell	See T lymphocyte.
stipe	A stemlike structure of a seaweed.
correlation	The degree to which two measured characters tend to vary in the same quantitative direction (positive correlation) or in opposite directions (negative correlation).
acyl-coa synthetase	An enzyme that converts a fatty acid to acyl-coA for subsequent beta oxidation.
r-selection	Selection in populations subject to rapidly changing environments with highly fluctuating food resources
plasma	See blood plasma.
myometrium	In the mammalian uterus, the outer tissue layer, consisting of smooth muscle.
kidney	An organ that regulates the composition and volume of the blood and other extracellular body fluids by producing and eliminating from the body an aqueous solution (urine) derived from the blood or other extracellular fluids.
ringent	gaping.
scriptus	lettered or marked with characters resembling letters.
selective medium	A medium which allows the growth of certain types of microorganisms in preference to others
congener**	A congener is a substance literally con- (with) generated or synthesized by essentially the same synthetic chemical reactions and the same procedures
general acid-base catalysis	Catalysis involving proton transfer(s) to or from a molecule other than water.
biocytin	The conjugate amino acid residue arising from covalent attachment of biotin, through an amide linkage, to a Lys residue.
eutrophic lake	A highly productive lake, having a high rate of biological productivity supported by a high rate of nutrient cycling.
pyrophosphate	A molecule formed by two phosphates in anhydride linkage.
covalent bond	A chemical bond created by the sharing of
reproductive isolation	The existence of biological factors (barriers) that impede members of two species from producing viable, fertile hybrids.
contorted	twisted: obliquely incumbent upon each other.
japanese knotweed	A plant that contains resveratrol, an antioxidant compound in red wine.
prey	Organism hunted and eaten by a predator.
non-refined	refers to breads and cereals in which the whole grain (including its bran and germ) are included in the food product
anomers	The sugar isomers that differ in configuration about the carbonyl carbon atom
inclusive fitness	The relative number of an individual's alleles that are passed on from generation to generation, either as a result of his or her own reproductive success, or that of related individuals.
mendel's second law	See law of independent assortment.
palearctic	relating to that part of the earth's surface including Europe, Africa north of Sahara, and Asia as far south as the southern edge of the Yang-tse-Kiang watershed and the Himalayas, and west to the Indus River.
extinction	The disappearance of a species or higher taxon.
essential	Required for the normal growth of an organism but not synthesized by the organism.
temporal comparison	Refers to comparing the same community at different times.
biomimetics	The development of synthetic systems based on information from biological systems.
cyanobacterium	A prokaryotic oxygenic phototrophic bacterium containing chlorophyll a and phycobilins.
repeat region	The part of DNA where a certain codon is repeated many times
uniformitarianism	An important assumption in science that says that the physical laws that operate today have operated in the same manner in earlier times, back to close to the beginning of the universe
antibiotic	A chemical compound produced by one microorganism (especially fungi) which can inhibit the growth of (or kill) other microorganisms
replication	Process by which something is duplicated by following a template.
ketjap	an Oriental fermented food; Indonesian soy sauce; black soybeans are fermented for 2-3 days by Aspergillus oryzae; the root of the words Ketchup and Catsup.
vesicular	bladder-like; beset with spherical prominences.
polyclonal antiserum	A mixture of antibodies to a variety of antigens or to a variety of determinants on a single antigen.
organism	An individual living thing, such as a bacterium, fungus, protist, plant or animal.
notate	marked by spots: with a series of depressed marks as a sculpture.
polymorphism	The presence of two or more genetic or phenotypic variants in a population
escherichia coli	A Gram negative bacterium commonly found in the vertebrate intestine
diploid	Possessing a full complement of paired chromosomes.
abiotic	A+biotic
trna	A group of small RNA molecules that function as amino acid donors during protein synthesis
"enhanced greenhouse effect"	process in which atmospheric gases trap and return more than 80% of the heat energy radiated by the Earth
uniplicate	with a single fold or line of folding.
bioequivalent	A pharmaceutical compound that equals another in bioavailability and potency.
solar radiation	The visible and near-visible (ultraviolet and near-infrared) radiation emitted from the sun.
altricial	adj
osteon	The repeating organizational unit forming the microscopic structure of hard mammalian bone.
deme	A local population of a species (in sexual forms, a local interbreeding group).
acetylation	An enzymatic reaction that results in the addition of an acetyl group to a biochemical.
congener***	A congener is a substance literally con- (with) generated or synthesized by essentially the same synthetic chemical reactions and the same procedures
inbreeding	Mating between genetically related individuals often resulting in increased homozygosity in their offspring.
dimorphism	Displaying two separate growth forms.
reptiles & water	Appearance of shelled egg, developed lungs, resistance to desiccation allows tetrapods to move away from water.
scaling	The study of the relations between physiological (or morphological) features and body size within sets of phylogenetically related species, e.g., the study of metabolism-weight relations.
ink-jet technology	A non-contact method for delivering biomolecules to substrate surfaces
total functional capacity	A standardized scale used to assess capacity to work, handle finances, perform domestic chores and self-care tasks, and live independently
radial symmetry	A body plan in which the body parts originate from the central of the organism like spokes in a wheel
haploid	Containing one set of chromosomes
remediation	See bioremediation.
angulate	forming an angle; when two margins meet in an angle.
exuviation	the act of molting: the cast-off skin or exuvium.
patch-clamp recording	A method of measuring single-channel currents by sealing a glass capillary microelectrode to a patch of cell membrane
cryptic	A function that is silent
phosphatase	Enzyme that removes phosphate groups from a molecule.
coenzyme a	Small molecule used in the enzymatic transfer of acyl groups in the cell
anastomose	To form an interconnected network of tubules, vessels, or similar structures by patterns of branching, reconnection, and rebranching.
i5-lipoxygenase	An enzyme that leads to the production of leukotrienes, which are chemicals that contribute significantly to inflammation.
glomerate	congregated or massed together.
products	A substance remaining at the end of a reaction
environmental grain	An ecological term for the effect of spatial variation, or patchiness, relative to the size and behavior of an organism.
ventral horn	Another term for anterior horn.
thyridiate	applied to a wing vein that at one point seems broken so as to permit of a folding or bending; either to pack into a small compass or to enfold the body.
corniform	like the horn of an ox: a long, mucronate or pointed process.
free energy	The component of the total energy of a system that can do work at constant temperature and pressure.
toxicokinetics	The rate of uptake and transformation of potentially toxic substances within a living system.
cryptogam	a plant, fungus, or chromistan that propagates by spores rather than by seeds (fungi, algae, bryophytes, ferns).
reverse two hybrid system	A method for studying protein-protein interactions in which interactions result in the increased transcription of a toxic marker causing growth inhibition
ontjom	an Indonesian fermented food, prepared from peanut press cake, which has been surface inoculated with the Monilia anamorph of Neurospora sitophila (Sordariales: Ascomycetes).
sequencer	Device for determining the sequence of monomeric residues of a polymeric molecule.
crystal structure	A structure obtained by x-ray diffraction analysis of a crystal consisting of an ordered array of biomacromolecules.
transcript	See primary transcript.
spindle	Fiber formed during nuclear division that aligns chromosomes and pulls them to the opposite poles.
eutherian mammals	Placental mammals; those whose young complete their embryonic development within the uterus, joined to the mother by the placenta.
pseudogene	Stretch of DNA related in sequence to a funtional gene; it is however inactive as a result of the changes it has accumulated during evolution.
colinearity	Correspondence between the location of mutant sites in bacterial DNA and the location of amino acid substitutions in the finished polypeptide or protein.
side effects	Problems that occur when treatment causes undesired effects, too much of the desired effect, or other problems occuring in addition to the desired therapeutic effect.
annotation	In the study of genomics, the process of adding interpretive information to gene identities
homeostatic	Of or relating to homeostasis.
radioactive isotope	Form of an atom with an unstable nucleus that emits radiation as it decays.
α helix	A helical conformation of a polypeptide chain, usually right-handed, with maximal intrachain hydrogen bonding; one of the most common secondary structures in proteins.
carbohydrates	Organic molecules composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen that serve as energy sources and structural materials for cells of all organisms
parthenogenesis	Production of a new individual from an egg cell in the absence of fertilization by sperm.
electron	A particle with a single negative charge; one or more electrons orbit the nucleus of the atom.
cladogenesis	An adaptive evolutionary process that leads to the development of a greater variety of organisms.
three-point cross	Test designed to determine the order of three linked genes on a chromosome based on observations of the recombinants occurring from crossovers.
acicular	needle-shaped; with a long, slender point.
stele	the central cylinder of conductive tissue in roots.
permineralization	Fossilization process that occurs when minerals, carried by ground water, enter and harden in the pores of an organism's structures.
geldanamycin	a naturally-occurring drug produced by microorganisms
chiral compound	A compound that can exist in two forms that are non-superimposable images of one another.
myotome	Segment of the body formed by a region of muscle
humoral immunity	Two types of antibodies are important
contrast	In relation to microscopes, the ability to distinguish different densities of structures.
small intestine	The longest section of the alimentary canal; the principal site of the enzymatic hydrolysis of food macromolecules and the absorption of nutrients.
dnp	2,4-dinitrophenol.
ligase	An enzyme that repairs single-stranded discontinuities in double-stranded DNA molecules in the cell
ecogeographical rules	Generalizations that correlate adaptational tendencies of species with environmental factors such as climate
epimers	Two stereoisomers with more than one chiral center that differ in configuration at one of their chiral centers.
uniformitarianism	A concept, popularized by Lyell in geology, that none of the forces active in past Earth history were different from those active today.
paedogenesis	reproduction in the sexually immature or larval stage.
footprinting	Technique for identifying protein-binding regions of DNA or RNA
canadian shield	n
enantiomers	Stereoisomers that are nonsuperimposable mirror images of each other.
vascular	Pertaining to or made up of blood vessels.
processivity	For any enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of a biological polymer, the property of adding multiple subunits to the polymer without dissociating from the substrate.
disaccharides	Carbohydrate molecules in which 2 monosaccharide molecules are joined together
enzyme	A protein that catalyzes biochemical reactions
neutron	A neutron is a negatively charged particle in the nucleus of an atom
chaetophorous	applied to bristle-bearing flies.
anchor locus	A well mapped locus that serves as a marker for a particular chromosome segment.
geniculum	a little knee or bend.
correlation	kor-uh-LAY-shun/ The degree to which two statistical variables vary together; usually measured in terms of the correlation coefficient.
threshold	In real-time PCR, the level of fluorescence that is considered to be significantly above the baseline level measured in the early cycles
cohesive ends	The single-stranded extensions generated in double-stranded DNA by staggered cuts by restriction endonucleases
fast pcr	PCR that runs in less time than standard PCR protocols
fatty acid	A class of compounds that contain a long chain composed of hydrogen and carbon atoms
detritus	/deh-TRITE-əs/ n
tryptophan	One of the amino acids found in our bodies
porphyrin	Complex nitrogenous compound containing four substituted pyrroles covalently joined into a ring; often complexed with a central metal atom.
alpha helix	Common folding pattern in proteins in which a linear sequence of amino acids folds into a right-handed helix stabilized by internal hydrogen bonding between backbone atoms.
interoperability	Ability of different types of databases, applications, operating systems, and platforms to function in an integrated manner.
igneous rock	A rock such as basalt (fine-grained) and granite (coarse-grained), formed by the cooling ofmolti material from the earth's interior.
meiosis	Process during gametogenesis by which the number of chromosomes per cell is reduced to the haploid number (one-half the full complement of chromosomes).
van der waals forces	Weak, long-range forces between nonpolar molecules.
viroid	A plant pathogen composed of molecules of naked circular RNA only several hundred nucleotides long.
antigenic drift	In influenza virus, minor changes in viral proteins (antigens) due to gene mutation.
immigration	The movement of individuals into a population or population area.
frequency	Proportion of observations occurring for an event.
maternal effect	Effect on progeny performance associated with the maternal environment provided by the maternal parent.
flange	a projecting rim or edge.
zinc finger	A specialized protein motif involved in DNA recognition by some DNA-binding proteins; characterized by a single atom of zinc coordinated to four Lys residues or to two His and two Lys residues.
reducing end	The end of a polysaccharide having a terminal sugar with a free anomeric carbon; the terminal residue can act as a reducing sugar.
cointegrate	An intermediate in the migration of certain DNA transposons in which the donor DNA and target DNA are covalently attached.
thrum	Type of distylic flower possessing a short style and long anthers.
hemolysin	Bacterial toxins capable of lyzing red blood cells.
catervatum	by heaps.
habitat	n
phylogenetic evolution	Evolutionary changes that produce two or more lineages that diverge from a single ancestral lineage
rotate	wheel-shaped.
casts	Fossils formed when water containing minerals leaks into a mold
hipaa	A U.S
nucleate	with, or having a nucleus.
conjugation	Mechanism by which genetic material may be exchanged between bacterial cells
electron transfer	Movement of electrons from substrates to oxygen via the carriers of the respiratory (electron transfer) chain.
bi	prefix, means two.
feedback inhibition	Inhibition of an allosteric enzyme at the beginning of a metabolic sequence by the end product of the sequence; also known as end-product inhibition.
gnotobiotic	A system to which only preselected components, organisms and nutrients are introduced.
immunoglobulin	Any of the class of proteins that function as antibodies
hydroponic culture	A method in which plants are grown without soil by using mineral solutions.
carpel	Part of a flower that encloses the ovules and extends into a compound pistil.
ethanol fermentation	See alcohol fermentation.
ecotype	A subdivision of a species that survives as a distinct population through environmental selection and reproductive isolation.
coevolution	Evolutionary changes in one or more species in response to changes in other species in the same community.
glucocorticoid degenerative cascade	The process that occurs when excess glucocorticoids cause hippocampal nerve cells to die, which then leads to the release of even more glucocorticoids, which then leads to further death of hippocampal nerve cells.
loess	n
turbidity current	n
ecological footprint	A method of using multiple constraints to estimate the human carrying capacity of Earth by calculating the aggregate land and water area in various ecosystem categories appropriated by a nation to produce all the resources it consumes and to absorb all the waste it generates.
transposition	The movement of a DNA sequence from one site to another within the genome
cellular microbiology	A new discipline emerging at the interface between cell biology and microbiology
tolerance succession model	Driven by life-history characteristics whereby later succession species grow more slowly and eventually replace early succession species.
lyase	An enzyme that catalyzes the removal of a group to form a double bond, or the reverse reaction.
facilitated diffusion	Diffusion of a polar substance across a biological membrane through a protein transporter; also called passive diffusion or passive transport.
tritium	An isotope of hydrogen that has three times the mass of an ordinary hydrogen atom.
dideoxy method	The standard method of DNA sequencing.
tetrahedron	four-cornered figure with four equal triangular sides
cosmopolitan	species that occur throughout most of the world.
y chromosome	One of the two sex chromosomes (the other is the X chromosome)
disjuncture	Separation of chromosomes during meiosis.
adpressed	laid or pressed to; contiguous.
recombination frequency	The number of recombinants divided by the total number of progeny
commodity chemical	Chemicals such as ethanol that have low monetary value and are thus sold primarily in bulk.
programmed cell death	see apoptosis
biosemiotics	The study of the exchange of information between organisms.
redox-buffer	Acts to protect against oxidative damage.
dioecious	Organisms in which the male and female sex are in separate individuals.
src family	Family of cytoplasmic tyrosine kinases (pronounced “sark”) that associate with the cytoplasmic domains of some enzyme-linked receptors (for example, the T cell antigen receptor) that lack intrinsic tyrosine kinase activity
gap penalty	A penalty subtracted from a sequence alignment score due to the introduction of a gap or the elongation of a gap.
fak	see focal adhesion kinase
spore	A resistant single cell
morphospecies	A species defined by its anatomical features.
ventrad	extending or directed toward the under side.
irradiation	exposure to some form of radiant energy.
coliform	Gram-negative, nonspore-forming facultative rod that ferments lactose with gas formation with 48 hours at 35¼C
gamma ray	A high-frequency, highly penetrating radiation emitted in nuclear reactions.
sterile	not capable of reproducing its kind.
catenation	The linking of molecules without any direct covalent bonding between them, as when two circular DNA molecules interlock like the links in a chain.
st14a cell line	Cells that exhibit quite accurately many of the properties of striatal nerve cells and can be engineered to express either normal or mutant huntingtin.
exothermic	Referring to a chemical reaction that releases heat (i.e., has a negative change in enthalpy).
villus	a short, hair-like or papillate process on the surface of certain absorbent and sensory organs.
noncompetitive inhibitor	An inhibitor of enzyme activity whose effect is not reversed by increasing the concentration of substrate molecule.
tetrahydrobiopterin	The reduced coenzyme form of biopterin.
dihybrid	Individual heterozygous at two loci.
immunocytochemistry	A method of staining cells with antibodies to pinpoint the location of the huntingtin protein under a microscope.
dehydration reaction	A chemical reaction in which two molecules covalently bond to one another with the removal of a water molecule.
scavenger	An organism that habitually feeds on animals who died naturally or accidentally or were killed by another carnivore.
km	A parameter that describes the affinity of an enzyme for its substrate and equals the substrate concentration that yields the half-maximal reaction rate; also called the Michaelis constant
granulocyte	Category of white blood cell distinguished by conspicuous cytoplasmic granules
primary productivity	The rate at which light energy or inorganic chemical energy is converted to the chemical energy of organic compounds by autotrophs in an ecosystem.
planula hypothesis	The concept that metazoans evolved from small primitive organisms that consisted of solid balls of cells (planulae) similar to embryonic stages of sponges and Cnidaria.
inner compartment of mitochondrion	The central area of the mitochondrion, sometimes called the matrix and where the Kreb’s cycle happens.
polar	The uneven distribution of postive and negative charges in small molecules, resulting in an electric dipole moment.
phototroph	An organism that can use the energy of light to synthesize its own fuels from simple molecules such as carbon dioxide, oxygen, and water; as distinct from a chemotroph.
rational drug design	The design of a drug molecule based on knowledge of the pharmacologically relevant characteristics of the target protein structure, as obtained by x-ray crystallographic methods.
data	Recorded observations.
heterostyly	Specific flower morphology in which stamens and styles are of unequal lengths, thereby promoting cross-pollination.
ova glebata	eggs laid or concealed in lumps of dung.
protein glycosylation	Posttranslational addition of oligosaccharide side chains to a protein.
δg°	see standard free-energy change
temperature-sensitive mutant	Organism or cell carrying a genetically altered protein (or RNA molecule) that performs normally at one temperature but is abnormal at another (usually higher) temperature.
colonial	1
clonal	A population of cells derived from a single cell and thus expected to be genetically identical
positive control	A system that is turned on by the presence of a regulatory protein.
cistron	A genetic unit that encodes a single polypeptide chain.
paleontology	The scientific study of fossils.
protein affinity chromatography	A method for the direct characterization of protein-protein interactions.
absorption	In the study of nutritional physiology, the entry of organic molecules into the living tissues of an animal from outside those tissues
hrsa	Health Resources and Services Administration
cusps	Elevations on the crowns of premolars and molars
combinatorial control	Describes the control of a step in a cellular process, such as the initiation of DNA transcription, by a combination of proteins rather than by any individual one.
coenzymes	An organic molecule that is a necessary participant in some enzymatic reactions;helps catalysis by donating or accepting electrons or functional groups; e.g.a vitamin, ATP, NAD+
hemoglobin	A substance found within red blood cells that binds to oxygen and carries it from the lungs to the tissues.
kairomone	A chemical signal released by a member of one species in the course of its activities that is detected and exploited by a member of another species
nodulose -us -ate	with small nodes or nodules: a surface sculpture of knots or links, connected by an undulating line.
calvin cycle	The biochemical route of carbon dioxide fixation in many autotrophic organisms.
actin	A globular protein that links into chains, two of which twist helically about each other, forming micro filaments in muscle and other contractile elements in cells.
pulverulent	powdery or dusty in appearance.
culture medium	A liquid or gel-like substance containing nutrients in which tissues are cultivated for scientific purposes; used in tissue culture.
immunity	The ability of a (human or animal) body to resist infection by microorganisms or their harmful products such as toxin
3d-qsar	See Three-dimensional Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationship.
catabolic	Used to describe a destructive process that breaks down larger molecules into smaller molecules.
autotroph	Organism which uses carbon dioxide as the sole carbon source.
substituent	A molecular group that replaces another in a chemical reaction.
rain shadow	An arid region on the leeward side of a mountain range that experiences low levels of precipitation.
fusain	Fossilized charcoal.
g-matrix	A square matrix with additive genetic variances for the traits on the diagonal and additive genetic covariances on the off-diagonal.
building block	A reagent used in combinatorial library synthesis.
thermoregulation	The maintenance of internal body temperature within a tolerable range.
filamentous phage	A group of phage with the nucleic acid surrounded by a long, tubular protein coat
highly unsaturated fatty acids	Fatty acids that contain more than one double bond
sembling	= assembling; q.v.
noble rot	a condition in which the mould Botrytis grows on overripe grapes
flavo-vixens	green verging upon yellow [apple green + chrome yellow].
phosphodiester bond	The covalent bond joining the 3' hydroxyl of the sugar moiety of one (deoxy)ribonucleotide to the 5' hydroxyl of the adjacent sugar.
sarcopenia	The loss of skeletal muscle mass as a result of aging
entropy	The extent of randomness or disorder in a system.
versicolored	with several colors, indeterminately restricted.
screening	See profiling.
microtubules	Cytoskeletal fibers (24 nm in diameter) that are formed by polymerization of α,β-tubulin monomers and exhibit structural and functional polarity
primary structure	Sequence of monomer units in a linear polymer, such as the amino acid sequence of a protein.
immigrant	One who moves into a new habitat.
mesophyll cell	A loosely arranged photosynthetic cell located between the bundle sheath and the leaf surface.
polysaccharide	A polymer of up to over a thousand monosaccharides, formed by dehydration reactions.
recombinant dna	A DNA molecule containing DNA originating from two or more sources.
siberia	n
peptide	Two or more amino acids covalently joined by peptide bonds.
xylem	Water-conducting tissue of vascular plants.
polycistronic messenger rna	In prokaryotes, an RNA that contains two or more cistrons; note that only in prokaryotic mRNAs can more than one cistron be utilized by the translation system to generate individual proteins.
ingroup	In a cladistic analysis, the set of taxa which are hypothesized to be more closely related to each other than any are to the outgroup.
sikoro	One of the poorest towns located in Bamako, Mali.  There is no electricity or running water.  GAIA VF's Chez Rosalie clinic is located in Sikoro.
hydrophobic	Literally water fearing
aerobic respiration	An electron transport system in which oxygen serves as the terminal electron acceptor.
adhesion	The attraction between different kinds of molecules.
glomerulus	The first section of the kidney’s nephron where filtration takes place
nitrogenase	The enzyme complex catalyzing the reaction of nitrogen fixation.
mendelian population	Group of interbreeding, sexually reproducing individuals.
icosahedron	A geometrical shape occurring in many virus particles, with 20 triangular faces and 12 corners.
abbreviated	cut short; not of usual length.
landscape	Several different, primarily terrestrial ecosystems linked by exchanges of energy, materials, and organisms.
anemia	A reduced number of erythrocytes per cubic millimeter, reduction in amount of hemoglobin, or reduction in volume of packed red cells per 100ml of blood (malaria; hookworm and Diphyllobothrium latum infections).
saxicolous	species that frequent rocky or stony areas.
peptide	Two or more amino acids are joined by a so-called peptide-bond.
molecular chaperones	Proteins that use energy from ATP to guide the folding of other proteins into correct three-dimensional configurations
morphological convergence	Structures in unrelated organisms that have a similar appearance due to common evolutionary pressures
heat-shock proteins	An evolutionarily related group of proteins that are principally inducible—being expressed in the aftermath of heat stress or other stress—and that function as molecular chaperones
triglyceride	A lipid synthesized from one glycerol and three fatty acid molecules
turnover number	The number of product molecules produced per minute by an enzyme catalyzing a reaction at the maximum rate.
digestion	chemical breakdown of large complex molecules to simpler ones.
ligase	An enzyme that catalyzes the joining of two molecules together
entropy	A measure of disorder or uncertainty of a system
mutation-selection balance	A process in which removal of variation by selection is balanced by the input of new variation into the population by mutation.
mycorrhizae	Mutualistic associations of plant roots and fungi
common-source epidemic	An epidemic resulting from infection of a large number of people from a single contaminated source.
van der waals interactions	Weak attractions between molecules or parts of molecules that are brought about by localized charge fluctuations.
integrins	A large family of heterodimeric transmembrane proteins that promote adhesion of cells to the extracellular matrix or to the surface of other cells.
hybridization	Interbreeding of different strains.
neurite	Long process growing from a nerve cell in culture
dna methylation	The inactivation of genes by the addition of methyl (-CH3) groups to cytosine.
electrophoresis	Movement of charged solutes in response to an electrical field; often used to separate mixtures of ions, proteins, or nucleic acids.
permeases	See transporters
line	a narrow streak or stripe: as a term of measurement, one- twelfth of an inch; commonly used by English and early American authors.
heteromorphic	Homologous chromosomes that differ in morphology.
catabolism	The phase of intermediary metabolism concerned with the energyyielding degradation of nutrient molecules.
solvent	The dissolving agent of a solution
gs	see stimulatory G protein
crura	the legs or, more specifically, the thighs.
concatamer	An end-to-end (tandem) array of identical DNA rnolecules; a repeated polymer of DNA.
biodegradable	Substance capable of being decomposed by biological processes.
nitrogenous base	One of the molecular components of a nucleotide; a class of ringed molecules with carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen.
air-tube	a respiratory siphon.
metamorphism	n
puffing	a phenomenon in which thousands of asci in an apothecial ascoma discharge their ascospores simultaneously, producing a visible cloud of spores.
organism	Any living thing.
polyunsaturated hydrocarbon	fatty acids that contain more than one double bond between carbon atoms per molecule
cytogenetic map	Chart of a chromosome that locates genes with respect to chromosomal features.
chlorofluorocarbons	compounds composed only of the elements chlorine, fluorine, and carbon
germination	The process by which a seedling emerges and develops from a seed, or by which a sporeling emerges and develops from a spore.
class ii mhc molecule	One of the two classes of MHC molecule
leaky mutant	A mutant gene that gives rise to a product with a detectable Ievel of biological activity.
transposon	A type of transposable element which, in addition to genes involved in transposition, carries other genes; often conferring selectable phenotypes such as antibiotic resistance.
blister rusts	serious diseases of pines, caused by species of Cronartium (Uredinales: Teliomycetes).
nodule	a little knot, lump or node.
anchylosed	grown together at a joint.
donor	The source of DNA in a genetic cross
mutagen	A chemical or physical agent that induces mutations.
plasmodesmata	Channels through the cell walls of a plant cell that allow movement of chemicals between adjacent plant cells
microgram	A measurement of mass; commonly used in measuring dietary supplements (1 mcg= 10^-6 grams).
amygdaliform	almond-shaped.
cryptococcosis	a systemic mycosis caused by a basidiomycetous yeast, Cryptococcus neoformans (teleomorph in Filobasidiella neoformans).
zooplankton	Tiny, free-floating organisms in aquatic systems
antitegula	see antisquama.
event	Occurrence of whatever it is stated to be.
metabolic water	Water that is formed by chemical reaction within the body
anomalous	unusual; departing widely from the usual type.
dtdp	Thymidine diphosphate.
macroscopic	Objects or organisms that are large enough to be seen with the naked eye.
metabolism	All biochemical reactions in a cell, both anabolic and catabolic.
continental margin	n
genetic drift	Unpredictable fluctuations in allele frequencies from one generation to the next because of a population's finite size.
heat shock	stress upon the cell resulting from temperatures outside its tolerable range
homeothermic	Refers to the ability to maintain a constant body temperature.
palea	The smaller of the two bracts (the other being the lemma) that encloses the stamens and pistil in a grass floret.
ibotenic acid	a metabolite of Amanita muscaria; changes to muscimol, a hallucinogen, when the basidiomata are dried.
pyrogenic	Fever-inducing.
passive	diffusionNet movement of a molecule across a membrane down its concentration gradient at a rate proportional to the gradient and the permeability of the membrane.
barachois	n
abif	Avidin-biotin immunofluorescence.
brachiopod	A marine lophophorate with a shell divided into dorsal and ventral halves
volumetric flask	type of glassware that contains a precise amount of solution when filled to the mark on its neck
bacteriocin	Agents produced by certain bacteria that inhibit or kill closedly related species.
white adipose tissue	The ordinary fat-storage tissue of vertebrates, exemplified by the “fat” we speak of in poultry or beef prepared for food
plane	level, flat; applied to a surface.
unicolorous	of one color throughout.
polygyny	A polygamous mating system involving one male and many females.
uv absorbance spectroscopy	A method for measuring the concentration of a compound by determining the amount of ultraviolet radiation absorbed by a sample.
lactation	The continued production of milk.
constitutive	Used to describe compounds or molecules whose concentration in the body remains stable
chemotaxis	Oriented movement of a motile organism with reference to a chemical agent
phosphate	an ion consisting of a phosphorus atom and four oxygen atoms
oligonucleotide	A short polymer of nucleotides (usually less than 50).
b-cell	Particular type of lymphocyte that produces humoral immunity; matures in the bone marrow and produces antibodies.
luciferous	light giving.
nociceptor	A class of naked dendrites in the epidermis of the skin.
endogenous	Arising from internal structures or functional causes.
species	A group whose members possess similar anatomical characteristics and have the ability to interbreed.
dna compaction	The reduction in the volume occupied by a DNA molecule caused by the addition of multivalent cations such as polyamine to the DNA.
methylation	The addition of a methyl group (-CH3) to a molecule
unci	thick, hooked processes, forming the borders of the anal opening.
torpor	In animals, a physiological state that conserves energy by slowing down the heart and respiratory systems.
polypeptide	A chain of multiple amino acids.
haploid life cycle	Occurs when the only multicellular stage in an organism's life cycle is haploid.
lipoproteins	Compounds such as HDL and LDL that carry cholesterol through the bloodstream; made from a fat (lipid) and a protein.
-ius	suffix; having the power or ability to.
rich medium	A growth medium in which not all the components have been identified
meniscus	The curved top surface of a column of liquid.
microtransponder	Cube-shaped (~100µm), miniature radio-frequency transmitters out of silicon
habitat	The place and conditions in which an organism normally lives
inhibitor of apoptosis family	see IAP family
gfp	see green fluorescent protein
osmosis	Bulk flow of water through a semipermeable membrane into another aqueous compartment containing solute at a higher concentration.
peroxisome	Small organelle in eukaryotic cells whose functions include degradation of fatty acids and amino acids by means of reactions that generate hydrogen peroxide, which is converted to water and oxygen by catalase.
macroaggregate	A visible aggregrate of macromolecules.
oligomer	A short polymer, usually of amino acids, sugars, or nucleotides; the definition of "short" is somewhat arbitrary, but usually less than 50 subunits.
multicellular	term used to describe an organism that consists of more than one cell.
systemic tissues	All tissues other than those of the breathing organs.
splitting evolution	See Cladogenesis.
intermembrane space	The subcompartment formed between the inner and outer mitochondrial membranes.
aureole	a ring of color which is usually diffuse outwardly.
pore	any small, round opening on the surface.
basin	n
biological augmentation	An approach to restoration ecology that uses organisms to add essential materials to a degraded ecosystem.
query sequence	The nucleic acid or protein sequence used to search sequence databases in order to identify similar sequences from which function may be deduced.
amber codon	The UAG nonsense codon
known carrier	Individual who is known to carry a recessive gene at a particular locus
hexose	A six-carbon monosaccharide.
stability	Often used to mean constancy; the propensity to return to a condition (a stable equilibrium) after displacement from that condition.
conservative replication	Model of DNA replication in which both original strands of DNA are retained in the parent cell, while both newly synthesized strands are incorporated into the daughter cell.
whole-genome shotgun sequencing	Method of sequencing a genome in which sequenced fragments are assembled into the correct sequence in contigs by using only the overlaps in sequence.
asymptomatic	A term used to describe an individual who does not currently show symptoms of the disease being discussed
deciduous	that which may be cast off or shed.
ladder of nature	A concept based on Aristotle's view (the Scale of Nature) that nature can be represented as a succession of stages or ranks that leads from inanimate matter through plants, lower animals, higher animals, and finally to the level of humans
culture	The ideas, customs, skills, rituals, and similar activities of a people or group that are passed along to succeeding generations.
polymorphism	Difference in DNA sequence among individuals
plesiomorphy	A primitive character state for the taxa under consideration.
copolymer	polymer built from two or more different monomers
intermediate disturbance hypothesis	The concept that moderate levels of disturbance can foster greater species diversity than low or high levels of disturbance.
transition zone	is the transcontinental belt in which the austral and boreal elements overlap: it is divided into a humid or Alleghanian area; a western arid area; and a Pacific Coast humid area: all of which see.
merdivorous	feeding upon dung or excrement: see scatophagous.
pk	The negative logarithm of an equilibrium constant.
gradient of transfer	In an Hfr mating, the decrease in the inheritance of donor markers the farther they are from the origin of transfer.
scalpriform	chisel-shaped.
genes	The basic unit of heredity consisting of a specific nucleotide sequence in DNA (or RNA, in some viruses).
phragmobasidiomycetes	Basidiomycetes in which the basidia are subdivided by primary septa (Orders: Tremellales, Auriculariales) (cf
inclusion bodies	Another term for neuronal inclusions.
exertional dyspnea	Excessive shortness of breath after exercise.
phenotype	The observable properties of an organism
consanguinity	Relation by descent from a common ancestor.
atomic weight	The average weight of an atom of an element, i.e
anion exchange capacity	Sum total of exchangeable anions that a soil can adsorb
stercoral	relating or pertaining to excrement.
normal distribution	A bell-shaped frequency distribution of a variable; the expected distribution if many factors with independent, small effects determine the value of a variable; the basis for many statistical formulations.
accuracy	The reliability of a procedure; freedom from making mistakes.
bioleaching	The recovery of precious metals from ore by biological processes.
amyloid plaques	Another term for beta-amyloid plaques.
bipolar disorder	Depressive mental illness characterized by swings of mood from high to low; also called manic-depressive disorder.
abc transporter proteins	Large superfamily of membrane transport proteins that use the energy of hydrolysis of ATP to transfer peptides and a variety of small molecules across membranes.
d-	A configurational prefix that designates one of two chiral configurations (see L-).
epicenter	Point on the Earth's surface directly above the focus of an earthquake.
monomer	a simple molecule that can form polymers by combining with identical or similar molecules.
coupled reaction	Linked pair of chemical reactions in which the free energy released by one of the reactions serves to drive the other.
insurance hypothesis	If more species are present (i.e., diversity is higher), then there is a greater chance that at least one of the species will maintain functioning during disturbance or stress, compensating for other species that experience declines.
activation energy	Energy required to make substrate molecules active enough for a reaction to occur
genetic contribution	The contribution of genetic material by a parent to progeny, usually measured in animal breeding as a specified improvement in the population for a particular trait such as milk production.
reading-frame shift	See frameshift.
polymer	Large molecule made by covalently linking multiple identical or similar units (monomers) together.
placenta	A structure in the pregnant uterus for nourishing a viviparous fetus with the mother's blood supply; formed from the uterine lining and embryonic membranes.
anhydride	The product of the condensation of two carboxyl or phosphate groups in which the elements of water are eliminated to form a compound with the general structure , where X is either carbon or phosphorus.
carbon source	A nutrient which provides the carbon required for cellular biosynthesis.
amorphous region	in a polymer, a region in which the long polymer molecules are in a random, disordered arrangement
tortilis	twisted.
pentose	A simple sugar with a backbone containing five carbon atoms.
paleosol	Soil horizon from the geologic past.
homology	(i) Sequence identity between two nucleotide sequences
free energy	That part of the energy of a system that is available to do useful work.
vmax	Parameter that describes the maximal velocity of an enzyme-catalyzed reaction or other process such as protein-mediated transport of molecules across a membrane
partial agonist	A ligand that when bound to a receptor results in a submaximal response
q10 factor	The factor by which the reaction increases when you raise temperature by 10 degrees centigrade (or Kelvin).
genetic drift	Changes in the gene pool of a small population due to chance.
induced fit	A change in the conformation of an enzyme in response to substrate binding that renders the enzyme catalytically active; also used to denote changes in the conformation of any macromolecule in response to ligand binding such that the binding site of the macromolecule better conforms to the shape of the ligand.
selection	Process which favors one feature of organisms in a population over another feature found in the population
preadaptation	Possession of the necessary properties to permit a shift to a new niche, habitat, or function
aquaporin	A chemically defined type of water channel, often highly specific for water as opposed to solutes
cnidaria	nigh-DAR-ee-uh/ The phylum containing jellyfishes, sea anemones, corals, and hydroids
nanometer	a billionth (10-9) of a meter (m)
fermentation	Anaerobic energy-yielding metabolic pathway in which pyruvate produced by glycolysis is converted, for example, into lactate or ethanol, with the conversion of NADH to NAD+.
ileo-colon	the anterior portion of the hind-gut, extending from the mid-gut to the rectum, when not distinctly differentiated into ileum and colon.
contig	A set of DNA fragments that overlap to yield a continuous sequence without gaps.
female	In organisms with separate sexes, the one which produces eggs.
henderson-hasselbalch equation	An equation that relates the pKa, to the pH and the ratio of the proton acceptor (A-) and the proton donor (HA) species of a conjugate acid base pair.
shoot system	The aerial portion of a plant body, consisting of stems, leaves, and flowers.
proton	A subatomic particle with a single positive electrical charge, found in the nucleus of an atom.
chimeric dna	Recombinant DNA whose components originate from two or more different sources.
filament	a thread: a long slender process of equal diameter throughout: an elongated appendage.
covalent bond	Stable chemical force that holds the atoms in molecules together by sharing of one or more pairs of electrons
dirty bomb	" device that employs a conventional explosive to disperse a radioactive substance
allopolyploid	An organism or species that has more than two sets (2n) of chromosomes (that is, 3n, 4n, and so on) that derive from two or more different ancestral groups.
minus end	The end of a microtubule or actin filament at which the addition of monomers occurs least readily; the “slow-growing” end of the microtubule or actin filament
breed	1
blastomycosis	a disease in man caused by Blastomyces dermatitidis (teleomorph in Ajellomyces dermatitidis).
gene knockout	See knockout animal.
scanning electron microscope	Type of electron microscope that produces an image of the surface of an object.
erosion	n
papilla	Cellular outgrowths
steroid	A type of lipid characterized by a carbon skeleton consisting of four rings with various functional groups attached.
phosphorothioate	A phosphate with one oxygen replaced with a sulfur; this can also refer to an oligo with phosphorothioate linkages.
compound eye	A type of multifaceted eye in insects and crustaceans consisting of up to several thousand light-detecting, focusing ommatidia; especially good at detecting movement.
green gland	See antennal gland.
deae	Diethylaminoethyl cellulose.
chromosome complement	definite and characteristic number of chromosomes possessed by the cells of a species of plant or animal.
substrate	A molecule that is acted upon, and chemically changed, by an enzyme.
immune response	Response made by the immune system when a foreign substance or microorganism enters its body
oblique	any direction between perpendicular and horizontal.
sequenator	Device for determining the sequence of monomeric residues of a polymeric molecule.
ketone	A functional group of an organic compound in which a carbon atom is double-bonded to an oxygen
schizophrenia	Severe mental disturbance characterized by psychotic episodes in which patients lose the ability to distinguish reality from hallucination.
amino group	A functional group that consists of a nitrogen atom bonded to two hydrogen atoms; can act as a base in solution, accepting a hydrogen ion and acquiring a charge of +1.
2nd law of thermodynamics	The principle whereby every energy transfer or transformation increases the entropy of the universe
lethargy	A state of tiredness or inactivity.
noble gases	elements that are inert and do not readily undergo chemical reactions
gtpase	Enzyme activity that converts GTP to GDP
puniceus	carmine red [carmine].
gause's principle	See Competitive exclusion principle.
chelate	Organic chemical that forms ring compound in which a metal is held between two or more atoms strongly enough to diminish the rate at which it becomes fixed by soil, thereby making it more available for plant and microbial uptake.
stereoisomers	Two compounds with identical molecular formulas whose atoms are linked in the same order but in different spatial arrangements
positive pressure breathing	A breathing system in which air is forced into the lungs.
reye's syndrome	A rare and serious brain and liver disorder that is associated with the use of aspirin in children.
calcium carbonate	Chemical that also occurs in limestone and marble
back-mutation	A mutation that causes a mutant gene to regain its wild-type base sequence.
periodical	recurring at regular intervals.
centrad	toward the centre or interior.
humoral immunity	An immune response involving antibodies.
genetic drift	Changes in gene frequencies within a population over time resulting primarily from chance.
cadd	See Computer-assisted drug design.
dendrites	Short projections on the neuron that receive signals from other neurons
salinity	The sum total concentration of inorganic dissolved matter in water, usually expressed as grams of dissolved matter per kilogram of water.
selective permeability	The state of having a high permeability to some solutes but a low permeability to others
palisade mesophyll	One or more layers of elongated photosynthetic cells on the upper pan of a leaf; also called palisade parenchyma.
cell cycle	Reproductive cycle of a cell: the orderly sequence of events by which a cell duplicates its contents and divides into two.
molecular seive chromatography	See Gel filtration chromatography.
peat	Extensive deposits of undecayed organic material formed primarily from the wetland moss Sphagnum.
tibetan buddhism	A branch of Buddhism, which traveled to Tibet from India sometime after Buddhism had traveled to eastern China from India
flexile -is	capable of being bent at an angle without breaking: flexible.
regulator gene	Gene which controls expression of other genes through synthesis of repressor proteins.
amino group	-NH2
adhesion	the attraction between different kinds of molecules
osmosis	movement of water molecules along a concentration gradient from a region of high water concentration to a region of low water concentration through a selectively permeable membrane.
osteoporosis	A disease in which the bones are weakened by reduced calcium absorption
lophophore	Complex ring of hollow tentacles used as a feeding organ
acid hydrolase	Any of a group of diverse hydrolytic enzymes (including proteases, nucleases, glycosidases, etc.) that have their optimal activity at acid pH (around 5.0) and are found in lysosomes.
era	A division of geological time that stands between the eon and the period: the Phanerozoic eon is divided into Paleozoic, Mesozoic, and Cenozoic eras; and each era is divided into two or more periods.
mannose 6-phosphate	Unique marker attached to the oligosaccharides on some glycoproteins destined for lysosomes.
cyanobacterium	Prokaryotic, oxygenic phototrophic bacterium containing chlorophyll a and phycobilins, formerly the "blue-green algae."
nucleosome	Basic unit of organization of a mammalian chromosome, consisting of DNA wound around an octamer of histone proteins.
pm2.5	particulate matter with an average diameter less than 2.5 µm, also called fine particles
ingestion	A heterotrophic mode of nutrition in which other organisms or detritus are eaten whole or in pieces.
antagonist	Biological agent that reduces the number or disease-producing activities of a pathogen.
inflammatory response	See inflammation.
caching behavior	The storage of food or other material for later use.
standard free-energy change	The free-energy change for a reaction occurring under a set of standard conditions : temperature, 298 K; pressure, 1 atm or 101.3 kPa; and all solutes at 1 ni concentration
plant storage proteins	Proteins stored in seeds that are utilized as a source of amino acids during germination.
adrenocorticotropic hormone	A tropic hormone produced and secreted by the anterior pituitary that stimulates the production and secretion of steroid hormones by the adrenal cortex.
apical dominance	Concentration of growth at the tip of a plant shoot, where a terminal bud partially inhibits axillary bud growth.
cursorial	formed for running.
chemotroph	An organism that obtains energy by metabolizing organic compounds derived from other organisms.
structural isomer	One of several organic compounds that have the same molecular formula but differ in the covalent arrangements of their atoms.
omnivore	A heterotrophic animal that consumes both meat and plant material.
respiration	The catabolic process in which electrons are removed from nutrient molecules and passed through a chain of carriers to oxygen.
deciduous	/də-SID-joo-əs/ adj
dinosteranes/dinosteroids	chemicals found in dinoflagellates, which have been useful in documenting their existence early in the fossil record.
interspersed repeat sequences	Repeated sequences at multiple locations throughout the genome.
conspecifics	Belonging to the same species.
rosette-shaped	in the form of a double rose: clustered round a centre.
catabolism**	Catabolism consists of reactions involving endogenous organic substrates to provide chemically available energy (e.g., ATP) and/or to generate metabolic intermediates used in subsequent anabolic reactions.
metastasis	Refers to cells that separate from malignant tumors and travel to other sites, where they establish secondary tumors.
choriocele	KORE-ee-oh-seel/ Bulging of the choroid coat through a ruptured sclera.
mass number	The mass number of an atom is the mass of the atom’s protons plus neutrons plus electrons.
hereditary	Capable of being passed, through genetic material, from one generation to the next.
microfluidics	Handling of volumes of liquids as small as 0.1 nanoliter.
corticosteroids	Steroids released from the adrenal cortex
plasmid	A circular DNA duplex that replicates autonomously in bacteria
avogadro’s number	6 × 1023
ecological niche/niche	The particular range of conditions that species
passive transport	The diffusion of a substance across a biological membrane.
logistic growth	A type of population growth in which the population starts out growing exponentially but as resources become limiting, growth rate becomes zero and the population is at a long term equilibrium
negative assortative mating	Mating between unlike individuals that is more frequent than would be expected on the basis of chance.
ammonotelic	Excreting excess nitrogen in the form of ammonia.
gradualism	A view of Earth's history that attributes profound change to the cumulative product of slow but continuous processes.
rapamycin	A drug that has been shown to promote the breakdown of huntingtin aggregates by inhibiting the protein mTOR and inducing autophagy.
tumor suppressor	A protein that inhibits the uncontrolled cell growth that leads to formation of tumors.
de novo pathway	A biochemical pathway that starts from elementary substrates and ends in the synthesis of a biochemical.
obsessive-compulsive disorder	A disorder characterized by recurrent thoughts or behaviors (e.g., excessive hand washing or repeated doubt about having locked a door) that are severe enough to be time consuming or cause significant impairment in social functioning.
peripheral activation	Conversion of a hormone after secretion to a more physiologically potent form.
ground state	The lowest electronic energy state of an atom or a molecule.
polymer	A long molecule consisting of many similar or identical monomers linked together.
inhibition	When one species, or a group of species colonizes a disturbed area, and subsequently alters the environment of that area (by altering soil nutrients, light accessibility, or water availability), making it less habitable for later successional species.
monosaccharide	The simplest carbohydrate, active alone or serving as a monomer for disaccharides and polysaccharides
colloid	A mixture made up of a liquid and pa ticles that (because of their large size) remain suspended in that liquid.
cystic fibrosis	An
mismatch repair	A mechanism that corrects mismatched base pairs that have escaped correction by the proofreading activities of the DNA polymerases.
ionic bond	A chemical bond resulting from the attraction between oppositely charged ions.
disomy	Describes the state of cell that has two members of a pair of homologous chromosomes.
floppy baby" syndrome	An abnormal condition of newborns and infants where there is extremely low tone of the muscles; frequently a sign of Pompe disease in infants.
epiglottis	A cartilaginous flap that blocks the top of the windpipe, the glottis, during swallowing, which prevents the entry of food or fluid into the respiratory system.
bacillus	A bacterial genus in which members are rod-shaped, gram-positive, endospore-forming, and, depending on species, aerobic or facultatively anaerobic
deductive reasoning	A type of logic in which specific results are predicted from a general premise.
glomerulus	A minute anastomosing cluster of blood capillaries associated with a nephron in the kidney of a vertebrate, serving as the site of formation of primary urine by ultrafiltration
single-strand dna-binding protein	Protein that binds to the single strands of the opened-up DNA double helix, preventing helical structures from reforming while the DNA is being replicated.
inclusion bodies	Bodies formed within bacterial cells for the storage of various materials
effective population size	An estimate of the size of a population based on the numbers of females and males that successfully breed;
globular proteins	Soluble proteins with a globular (somewhat rounded) shape.
dose-dependent	Refers to findings in which the effects of a drug change when people consume a higher or lower amount of the drug.
economic threshhold	The population density of the potential pest below which the damage to the crop is insignificant (i.e
carbon fixation	See Calvin cycle.
decubitus	/də-KYOOB-ə-təs/ n
energy flow	In an ecological context, the flow of energy through trophic levels or major functional groups of organisms in an ecosystem; typically includes production, consumption, assimilation, non-assimilation losses (feces), and respiration (maintenance costs).
chromatography	a separation technique which uses the differential rates of diffusion of different sizes of molecules in gas (GC), liquid (HPLC), on paper, and in thin layers of silicate on glass, aluminum or plastic plates (TLC)
modulator	A metabolite that, when bound to the allosteric site of an enzyme, alters its kinetic characteristics.
mutualism	A symbiotic relation in which each of two species benefits by their interaction.
acid	a substance that increases the hydrogen ion concentration of a solution
mineral	naturally occurring element or compound that usually has a definite chemical composition, a crystalline structure, and is formed as a result of geological processes
electrochemical	Having to do with the interchanges between electrical and chemical energy, especially those taking place in the body.
biont	A single organism.
reverse electron transport	The energy-dependent movement of electrons against the thermodynamic gradient to form a strong reductant from a weaker electron donor.
feedback inhibition	A type of allosteric regulation in which the product of a metabolic pathway inhibits the activity of an enzyme involved in its synthesis.
gmo	Genetically modified organism
detritus	rubbed off; a surface partly denuded.
ecology	Study of the interrelationships between organisms and their environments.
signal	when one protein in a molecular pathway can activate or deactivate another protein, it is a signal to the affected protein.
halophilous	species living in salt marshes, or near the sea.
invasive species	Non-native species that increase rapidly in numbers and that have negative impacts on native species.
continuous culture	The culture of microorganisms in liquid medium under controlled conditions, with regular additions of depleted nutrients and removal of excreted metabolites from the medium over a lengthy period of time.
non-lethal effect/non-consumptive effect	Effect within a community that occur when prey react to predators by altering their behavior, morphology, and/or habitat selection.
illegitimate recombination	An aberrant recombination event between non-homologous sequences that occurs in the absence of a known site-specific recombination system.
ecotropic	A retrovirus that can replicate only in the host of the species in which it originated.
drug candidates	Chemical compounds that have potential to be developed into a therapeutic drug
laminarin	a beta-glucan polysaccharide produced by many chromists through photosynthesis.
decurved	bowed downward.
check point	The point in the eukaryotic cell division cycle where progress can be halted until conditions are suitable for progression to the next stage.
biosphere	That part of the earth containing all living organisms.
unidirectional replication	See bidirectional replication.
primary electron acceptor	A specialized molecule sharing the reaction center with the chlorophyll a molecule; it accepts an electron from the chlorophyll a molecule.
clone	Genetically identical cells or individuals originating from a common anscestrial cell or individual.
panspermia	The concept that life was introduced on earth from elsewhere in the universe.
granite	Highly felsic igneous plutonic rock, typically light in color; rough plutonic equivalent of rhyolite
blastem	a nucleated protoplasmic layer preceding the blastoderm.
pagina	the surface of a wing: P
deoxyadenosine	A nucleoside form of adenine.
conservative change	An alteration of the amino acid sequence of a protein with no effect on the function of the protein.
catabolism	Biochemical processes involved in the breakdown of organic compounds, usually leading to the production of energy.
r2	See coefficient of determination.
alkaloid	Small but chemically complex nitrogen-containing metabolite produced by plants as a defense against herbivores
extrafusal muscle fiber	In vertebrate skeletal muscle, an “ordinary” muscle fiber that is not associated with a muscle-spindle stretch receptor.
reciprocal altruism	A mutually beneficial exchange of altruistic behavioral acts between individuals
immunoprecipitation	The precipitation of a multivalent antigen by a bivalent antibody.
ventral	Relating to the front of an animal or lower surface of a structure (e.g., wing or leaf).
suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid	An HDAC inhibitor.
osmosis	The diffusion of water across a selectively permeable membrane.
cambrian explosion	A burst of evolutionary origins when most of the major body plans of animals appeared in a relatively brief time in geological history; recorded in the fossil record about 545 to 525 million years ago.
nitrogen cycle	The cycling of various forms of biologically available nitrogen through the plant, animal, and microbial worlds, and through the atmosphere and geosphere.
syncytic	see Hexactinellida
neutron	electrically neutral subatomic particle with the same mass as a proton
satellite dna	Regions of highly repetitive DNA from a eucaryotic chromosome, usually identifiable by its unusual nucleotide composition
insectivore	An animal that feeds primarily on insects.
larva	Among invertebrates, an immature stage in the life cycle which usually is much smaller than, and morphologically different from, the adult
visualization	The graphic representation of data, patterns within data, or knowledge based on analysis of data patterns.
metabolic pathway	A series of chemical reactions that either builds a complex molecule (anabolic pathway) or breaks down a complex molecule into simpler compounds (catabolic pathway).
ltp	see long-term potentiation
mark-recapture method	A sampling technique used to estimate wildlife populations.
annealing	The process of formation of double-stranded DNA from single-stranded DNA; compare with hybridization.
quinone	Small, lipid soluble, mobile electron carrier molecule found in the respiratory and photosynthetic electron-transport chains
free ribosomes	suspended in cytosol which will function in cytosol (ex:enzymes)
para-	next to; near by; at the side of.
prosthetic group	A small molecule bound to a protein.
duplex dna	A double-stranded DNA molecule.
fibril	A small filament or fiber.
natural service	Actual mating between males and females in contrast to artificial insemination.
electron donor	Substance that donates or gives up electrons in an oxidation-reduction reaction, becoming oxidized in the process.
biomineralization	The deposition of minerals by microorganisms and plant and animal cells.
t lymphocyte	Cells that form the basis of the cell mediated part of the immune system
condensation	See Dehydration synthesis.
model	A theoretical abstraction of the real world.
mutic -us	unarmed: lacking processes where such usually occur.
abduction	Movement of an appendage or body structure in a direction away from the midline (median sagittal) plane (for example, extending an arm laterally).
seldi	Surface-Enhanced Laser Desorption/Ionisation invented by T
autoclave	A chamber for sterilizing filters or equipment with saturated steam by using constant high temperature and pressure (121 °C, 15 psi)
oncogene	Dominant-acting gene that stimulates cell division, leading to the formation of tumors and contributing to cancer; arises from mutated copies of a normal cellular gene (protooncogene).
expanded polyglutamine chain	when a normal protein that has a certain number of glutamines in a chain is mutated, so that the number of glutamines in the chain increases, it is an expanded chain
barrier method	Contraception that relies on a physical barrier to block the passage of sperm
apoptosis	Programmed cell death, in which a cell degrades its own DNA, the nucleus and cytoplasm shrink, and the cell undergoes phagocytosis by other cells without leakage of its contents.
dna linker	An oligonucleotide containing a sequence that forms a restriction site in the presence of complementary sequence.
squamiform	having a scale-like form.
synthesis	building-up of large complex molecules from simpler ones by an enzyme- controlled reaction.
chromatography	The separation of a mixture of substances by charge, size, or other property by allowing the mixture to partition between a moving phase and a stationary phase.
dalton	Unit of molecular mass
fetus	The prenatal human after the eighth week of development, when structures grow and specialize.
radiation	Event of rapid cladogenesis, believed to occur under conditions where a new feature permits a lineage to move into a new niche or new habitat, and is then called an adaptive radiation.
mass spectrometer	An instrument that determines the exact mass of charged particles or ions by measuring the flight path through a set of magnetic and electric fields
antineoplastic	A drug that reduces or prevents the growth of a neoplasm.
cholecystokinin	A hormone
asepsis	Essentially a germ-free environment.
adenosine diphosphate	See ADP.
haplotype	A set of genes on a single chromosome.
anergy	A deficient immune response due to inactivated B- and T-lymphocytes.
brachial	relating to an arm; arm-like.
consensus sequence	A idealized nucleotide sequence that represents a sequence that serves some particular function (e.g
ecosystem services	Resources and processes provided to humankind by natural ecosystems.
discordant	Refers to a pair of twins of whom one twin has the trait under consideration and the other does not.
anaerobic bacteria	bacteria that can function without the use of molecular oxygen
pfu	Stands for plaque-forming unit.
metabolism	The sum total of the enzyme-catalyzed reactions that occur in a living organism.
decrepitans	crackling.
interval	the space or time between two structures, sculptures or periods of development.
nomenclature	the naming of Fungi is governed by the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature as adopted by each International Botanical Congress; any proposals to change the Code are published, debated, and voted on at such Congresses
tumescence	a swelling or tumid enlargement: a puffed up area.
festivus	variegated with bright colors.
excentric	not in the centre; revolving or arranged about a point that is not central.
ground state	The normal, stable form of an atom or molecule; as distinct from the excited state.
proteoglycan	Molecule consisting of one or more glycosaminoglycan (GAG) chains attached to a core protein.
aldehyde	An organic molecule with a carbonyl group located at the end of the carbon skeleton.
situ	in its natural place or position.
messenger rna	The transcript of a segment of chromosomal DNA which is a template for protein synthesis.
ligase	An enzyme that ligates (joins) two molecules in an energy-dependent process.
biuncinnate	with two hooks.
valence electron	An electron in the outermost electron shell.
mutases	Enzymes that catalyze the transposition of functional groups.
fermentation	One process by which carbon-containing compounds are broken down in an energy yielding process
agar	A gelatinous material prepared from certain red algae that is used to solidify nutrient media for growing microorganisms.
hominoids	A group (superfamily Hominoidea) that includes hominids (Hominidae), gibbons (Hylobatidae), and anes CPongidae).
acetyl coa	Small water-soluble molecule that carries acetyl groups in cells
anaerobiosis	Life in the absence of molecular oxygen.
anaerobic	Literally, "life without air." This term is applied to organisms which do not require oxygen to grow and for which oxygen is toxic
centimorgan	Unit of measure for distance on genetic maps
full sib	Brother or sister having both parents in common.
diffusion	Net drift of molecules in the direction of lower concentration due to random thermal movement.
adhd	Attention Deficit Hyperactive Disorder, is a neurological disorder initially appearing in childhood with symptoms such as hyperactivity, forgetfulness, poor impulse control, and distractibility.
nucleoside	Molecule composed of a purine or pyrimidine base covalently linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar
artificial selection	Set of human-imposed rules designed to govern the probability that an individual, chosen on the basis of one or more traits, survives and reproduces.
radio sensitivity	the degree to which a type of cancer responds to radiation therapy
aerobe	An organism that lives in air and uses oxygen as the terminal electron acceptor in respiration.
electron transfer chains	Array of enzymes and other molecules in a cell membrane that accept and give up electrons in sequence; operation of chain releases the energy of the electrons in small, usable increments.
synergism	Interactions between two or more agents (e.g., hormones) whereby they have a greater effect acting together than the simple sum of their individual effects.
bible	Holy book of Christianity
volumes percent	Milliliters (at STP) of gas dissolved or chemically combined within a fluid per 100 milliliters of the fluid.
milli-	Prefix denoting 10–3.
dryas	A common plant along the successional chain of species for forests.
cholecystokinin	A
microglia	A type of glial cell that is activated in the inflammatory response
hematologic growth factor	A colony stimulating factor that stimulates the production of some types of white and red blood cells.
ferredoxin	An electron carrier of low reduction potential; small protien containing iron-sulfur clusters.
interoreceptor	A sensory receptor that detects stimuli within the body, such as blood pressure and body position.
immigration	The influx of new individuals from other areas.
forcings	factors that affect the annual global mean surface temperature
papilla	a nipple-like extension, as on the auxiliary cells of some VAM fungi.
secondary sexual characters	features possessed by one sex but not the other, other than the differences of the reproductive organs themselves; e.g
dextrorotatory isomer	A stereoisomer that rotates the plane of plane-polarized light clockwise.
smile lines	The lines or wrinkles that appear on the cheeks.
opal mutation	A change in a codon to create the nonsense codon UGA (the opal codon).
strict aerobe	An organism that can survive only in an atmosphere of oxygen, which is used in aerobic respiration.
acyl phosphate	Any molecule with the general chemical form .
isotopes	Stable or radioactive forms of an element that differ in atomic weight but are otherwise chemically identical to the naturally abundant form of the element; used as tracers.
cisterna	Flattened membrane-bounded compartment, as found in the endoplasmic reticulum or Golgi apparatus.
decompression sickness	A pathological state that arises after diving when bubbles are formed within body fluids because the reduction in pressure during surfacing allows gases (especially N2) present at high dissolved partial pressures to come out of solution
snowball earth hypothesis	The hypothesis that glaciers covered the planet's landmasses from pole to pole 750-570 million years ago, confining life to very limited areas.
mass	The amount of matter in an object; often used interchangeably with weight
β sheet	see beta sheet
drug discovery	Processes for the the identification and development of drugs
aleurioconidium	A terminal or lateral conidium developed by expansion of the end of a conidiophore or hypha, and detaches by lysis or fracture of the wall.
tumor suppressor gene	Gene that appears to prevent formation of a cancer
polysaccharide	A linear or branched chain structure containing many sugar molecules linked by glycosidic bonds.
simulated annealing	A molecular dynamics method that simulates the heating and cooling of a system in order to describe the most stable state.
double circulatory system	A blood circulation in which the pulmonary circulation is separate from the systemic circulation (as in mammals, birds, and crocodilians).
reticular formation	A system of neurons, containing over 90 separate nuclei, that passes through the core of the brainstem.
species selection	A form of group selection in which species with different characteristics increase (by speciation) or decrease (by extinction) in number at different rates because of a difference in their characteristics.
merodiploid	A partially diploid bacterium, carrying both its own chromosome and a chromosome fragment introduced by conjugation, transformation or transduction.
bulk flow	The movement of water due to a difference in pressure between two locations.
lipid	A lipid is any number of diverse organic compounds all of which are characterized by having long hydrocarbon skeletons and by being generally nonpolar
alternative rna splicing	The production of different proteins from the same RNA transcript by splicing it in different ways.
biodegradable	capable of being broken down by microorganisms (bacteria and/or fungi).
masticate	to chew.
anti-inflammatory	Reducing inflammation
compression	Fossil formed when an organism is flattened (compressed) and a thin film of organic material from its body is left in the rock.
dmso	Dimethyl sulfoxide.
carcinogen	A molecule that can transform normal cells into cancer cells.
acidic	Adjective used to describe a substance or solution that has an abundance of positive hydrogen ions.
dibasic	/die-BASE-ick/ adj
cytometer	sigh-TOM-uh-tur/ An instrument for counting the number of cells in a sample.
archaea	One of two prokaryotic domains, the other being Bacteria.
episome	One of a class of genetic elements that, after insertion into a host cell, may replicate autonomously in the cytoplasm of the host, or become integrated into the chromosome of the host cell, and be replicated along with it.
endochorium	the layer of the allantois that lines the chorium; the inner layer of the chorium.
blue stain	a blue-grey colouration of worked wood paradoxically caused by the growth of brown fungal hyphae, often those of Ophiostoma) inside the wood cells.
biological magnification	A trophic process in which retained substances become more concentrated with each link in the food chain.
simple sequence repeats	See microsatellites.
teonanacatl	`the Flesh of the Gods,' magic mushrooms used in Central American curing and divining ceremonies.
iap family	Intracellular protein inhibitors of apoptosis.
myoepithelial cell	Type of unstriated muscle cell found in epithelia, e.g
hdsa center of excellence	Clinics recognized by HDSA for providing high quality, comprehensive care for HD patients and their families and for offering clinical trial opportunities and running outreach and educational programs.
allometric growth	The variation in the relative rates of growth of various parts of the body, which helps shape the organism.
euglena	A motile unicellular freshwater autotrophic organism traditionally classified as a plant-like member of the kingdom Protista (algae).
evapotranspiration	The evaporation of water from soil plus the transpiration of water from plants
absolute risk	The probability that an individual will develop a particular condition, based on family history and/or test results.
chemical chaperones	Synonym for counteracting solutes.
snp	see single-nucleotide polymorphism
biological clock	A physiological mechanism that gives an organism an endogenous capability to keep track of the passage of time.
tim complexes	Protein translocators in the mitochondrial inner membrane
macroclimate	Large-scale variations in climate; the climate of an entire region.
cladogenesis	The development of a new clade; the splitting of a single lineage into two distinct lineages; speciation.
rock cycle	The process through which one type of rock (igneous, sedimentary, or metamorphic) is converted into another.
dentate	toothed: with acute teeth, the sides of which are equal and the tip is above the middle of base.
registered dietician	A professional who has obtained training and credentials related to the use of specialized diets to address a variety of problems.
unwinding proteins	Proteins that help to unwind double-stranded DNA during DNA replication.
totipotency	The ability of embryonic cells to retain the potential to form all parts of the animal.
suturiform	an articulation soldered together so that only a slight impressed line is visible.
müllerian mimicry	Sharing of a common warning coloration or pattern among a number of species that are all dangerous or toxic to predators; resemblances maintained because of common selective advantage.
weigle reactivation	The increased survival of phage after UV irradiation if they infect cells that have previously been exposed to a lose dose of UV
fermentation	The energy-generating breakdown of glucose or related molecules by a process that does not require molecular oxygen.
selectivity filter	That part of an ion channel structure that determines which ions it can transport.
natural selection	Changes in the occurrence of alleles within a population over time due to differential reproductive success of individual genotypes.
cholemesis	kole-EM-uh-suhs/ Presence of bile in the vomitus.
intracellular fluids	The aqueous solutions inside cells
antisense rna	An RNA molecule that can hybridize to an mRNA molecule
inoculum	The initial sample of a microorganism added to a medium used to start a new culture.
enzyme	An enzyme is a protein molecule that behaves as a catalyst.
manometer	instrument used to measure differences in pressure by comparing the height of liquid in the two arms of a U-tube.
homologue	The term homologue is used to describe a compound belonging to a series of compounds differing from each other by a repeating unit, such as a methylene group, a peptide residue, etc.
posticus	hinder.
anal foot	applied to the tip of the body in larval Chironomids, which is modified to serve as a hold-fast.
toxicity	The degree to which a substance is able to damage an organism exposed to that substance
allosteric transition	Change in the tertiary and/or quaternary structure of a protein induced by binding of a small molecule to a specific regulatory site, causing a change in the protein’s activity
tri-articulate	composed of three joints or articles.
biseriately	arranged in double rows or series.
zeptomole	One-sextillionth mole; 10-21 mole.
epigamic selection	Selection for mating success based on appearance or behavior during courtship.
obtuse	not pointed: an angle greater than a right angle: opposed to acute
angstrom	A unit of measurement that was widely used until recently to describe molecular dimensions, but the unit nanometer (nm) is now more commonly used
α helix	see alpha helix
rnai	see RNA interference
recombination	Process in which DNA molecules are broken and the fragments are rejoined in new combinations
l3	One of three hybrid crosses used to detect linkage
neurotoxin	poison which interferes with nerve function, usually by affecting the flow of ions through the cell membrane.
equilibrium	The state of a chemical reaction in which the amounts on each side of the reaction have stabilized.
map-and-compass navigation	Navigation in which an animal has information about where it is in the world (the “map”) and about the direction it should take to reach a destination (the “compass”).
gibba	a rounded protuberance or prominence.
glassy	transparent; glass-like in appearance.
association analysis	A genetic variant is genotyped in a population for which phenotypic information is available (such as disease occurrence, or a range of different trait values)
punctuated equilibrium	A model of evolution in which change occurs in relatively rapid bursts, followed by longer periods of stasis.
gene probe	A labelled sequence of single-stranded nucleic acid (DNA or RNA) which can be used to detect the complementary nucleic acid sequence by a hybridization techniques.
coralline	a pale pinkish red [salmon].
overexploitation	Harvesting by humans of wild plants or animals at rates exceeding the ability of populations of those species to rebound.
methanogen	A microorganism that obtains energy by using carbon dioxide to oxidize hydrogen, producing methane as a waste product.
centrifuge	machine used to separate materials of differing density by spinning samples rapidly.
photosynthesis	biochemical process in which light energy is absorbed by chlorophyll, and is used to fuel the building of sugar molecules.
bullate	blistered.
chorea	Greek word for "dance." Chorea refers to an uncontrollable dance-like motion of twisting and turning that affects many persons with HD.
q10	See temperature coefficient.
transgression	(n) A rise in sea level relative to the land.
metatheria	See Marsupials.
folding	The process by which a chain of amino acids is modified to reach the final shape of the protein.
photosynthesis	The process by which organisms capture energy from the sun, convert it to chemical energy, and either store the energy in chemical bonds or use the energy to build biomass.
configuration	The spatial arrangement in which atoms are covalently linked in a molecule.
molecular genetics	The study of the chemical nature of genetic information and how it is encoded, replicated, and expressed.
ssdna	Single-stranded DNA.
comparative method	A method of analysis that seeks to identify adaptive traits or adaptive evolutionary trends by comparing how a particular function is carried out by related and unrelated species in similar and dissimilar environments.
crepuscular	A lifestyle characterized by activity mostly during the hours around dawn and dusk.
caudate nucleus	A brain structure within the basal ganglia; responsible for regulating and organizing information being sent to the frontal lobes from other areas of the brain.
dependent variable	In an experiment, the dependent variable is the factor that responds when another factor is manipulated.
es cell	see embryonic stem cell
inbreeding depression	Decrease in the average value of a character, or in growth, vigor, fertility, and survival, as a result of inbreeding.
hypha	In fungi, a thread like structure consisting of cells one after the other
taxon	A named taxonomic unit consisting of a distinctive group of organisms placed in a taxonomic category, whether the unit is that of a species, genus, family, order, and so on.
stream	A flowing body of water that is generally small, cold, and clear.
taxon	The named taxonomic unit at any given level of classification.
orad	toward the mouth.
endorphins	The brain's natural chemicals that are thought to elevate mood and/or kill pain.
bacteriochlorophyll	Light-absorbing pigment found in green sulfur and purple sulfur bacteria.
viability	Capacity for survival; often refers to the fraction of individuals surviving to a given age, and is contrasted with inviability due to deleterious genes.
ovulation	The release of an egg from ovaries
genomics	Comparative analysis of the complete genomic sequences from different organisms; used to assess evolutionary relations between species and to predict the number and general types of proteins produced by an organism.
signal transduction	Conversion of a signal from one physical or chemical form into another
long-day plant	A plant that flowers, usually in late spring or early summer, only when the light period is longer than a critical length.
stromatolites	Laminated rocks produced by layered accretions of benthic microorganisms (mainly filamentous cyanobacteria) that trap or precipitate sediments.
pathogen	An organism able to inflict damage on a host it infects.
bivalve -ed	applied to mouth parts consisting of two parts or valves united to form a tube.
autotrophs	An organism that obtains organic food molecules without eating other organisms or substances derived from other organisms
demoid	/DEM-oid/ adj
social darwinism	The concept that social and cultural differences in human societies (political, economic, military, religious, and so on) arise through processes of natural selection, similar to those that account for biological differences among populations and species.
suspension	A mixture of a liquid and small particles that stay in the liquid rather than settling out because of kinetic energy of the solvent’s molecules
cavity -as	a hollow space or opening.
cytochromes	A group of colored, heme-containing proteins that transfer electrons during cellular respiration and photosynthesis
immature secretory vesicle	Secretory vesicle that appears to have just pinched off the Golgi stack
ericeticolous	living in poor, sandy or gravelly places.
erythropoietin	Growth factor that stimulates the production of red blood cells
living fossil	An existing species whose similarity to ancient ancestral species indicates that very few morphological changes have occurred over a long period of geological time.
actinomycetes	Gram-positive bacteria that can form branching filaments
curvate	curved.
explanate	spread out and flattened; applied to a margin.
humidity	A general term referring loosely to the concentration of gaseous water in a gas
identical daughter cells	end products of mitosis each containing a complete set of chromosomes.
unsaturated hydrocarbon	hydrocarbon molecule that contains one or more double bonds between the carbon atoms
exsertion	a protrusion: an extension of a line or other ornamentation beyond its ordinary course.
chromatid	one of two identical replicas of a chromosome
functional complementation	The restoration of function by the introduction of exogenous DNA.
elongata -ate	drawn out; lengthened; much longer than wide.
episome	A genetic element that can exist either as an autonomous replicating plasmid or can insert into the bacterial chromosome
bronze	the color of old brass.
photoperiod	Day length; the number of hours of daylight in a 24-hour day.
centrum	the structures inside an ascoma, which are concerned with development of the asci.
uterine cycle	The changes that occur in the uterus during the reproductive cycle of the human female; also called the menstrual cycle.
translocation	movement of nutrients or other substances within an organism.
codon*	A codon is the sequence of three consecutive nucleotides that occurs in mRNA which directs the incorporation of a specific amino acid into a protein or represents the starting or termination signals of protein synthesis.
mucilaginous	composed of mucilage.
chlorophyll	Light-absorbing green pigment that plays a central part in photosynthesis in bacteria, plants, and algae.
iridicolor	any color so broken up as to reflect the prismatic hues.
confluent	running together; as of two macula when united in one outline.
sympathetic nervous system	A subdivision of the body's nervous system that is automatic (not consciously controlled) and is involved in preparing the body for physical activity.
molecule	The result of two or more atoms combining by chemical bonding.
cache	Stores of food made by many species of animals for future consumption.
positive supercoiling	Additional coiling of the circular duplex DNA molecule in the same direction as the winding of the double helix.
alluvium	n
cfu	Stands for colony-forming unit.
viable	Alive; able to reproduce.
mispairing	Improper alignment of two nucleic acid strands.
catabolism***	Catabolism consists of reactions involving endogenous organic substrates to provide chemically available energy (e.g., ATP) and/or to generate metabolic intermediates used in subsequent anabolic reactions.
sporulation	Formation from vegetative cells of metabolically inactive cells that can resist extreme environmental conditions.
chiral synthesis	The production of one enantiomer of a chiral compound, often by stereospecific synthesis by an enzyme.
furanose	A sugar that contains a five-membered ring as a result of intramolecular hemiacetal formation.
nonreciprocal translocation	Movement of a chromosome segment to a nonhomologous chromosome or region without any (or with unequal) reciprocal exchange of segments.
autoantibody	Antibodies that react to self antigens.
mesially	at or to the middle.
core	That portion of the interior of the Earth that lies beneath the mantle, and goes all of the way to the center
ethology	The study of animal behavior in natural conditions
sericterium -ies	the silk producing gland or glands in caterpillars: the spinning structures.
papilionaceous	butterfly-like.
chain reaction	term that generally refers to any reaction in which one of the products becomes a reactant
commensalism	An ecological relationship between species in which one is benefited but the other is little affected.
gastrula	The three-layered, cupshaped embryonic stage.
ovum	The mature female gamete often called the egg.
isotypes	Macromolecules with common structural and functional features, such as the IgG, IgM, IgA, IgD, and IgE antibody isotypes.
translocation	Type of mutation in which a portion of one chromosome is broken off and attached to another.
pattern formation	Clumped dispersal patterns.
mitoribosome	A mitochondrial ribosome
ligamen	t A type of fibrous connective tissue that joins bones together at Joints.
watson-crick rules	The normal base pairing rules for DNA and RNA: A pairs with T or U, and G pairs with C.
differentiation	Process usually involving changes in gene expression by which a precursor cell becomes a distinct specialized cell type.
levigate -us	with a smooth, somewhat shiny surface.
non-hd allele	A version of the Huntington gene that contains a normal number of CAG repeats and codes for the normally functioning form of the huntingtin protein
inos	Abbreviation for inducible nitric oxide synthetase.
abyssal plain	The ocean floor offshore from the continental margin, usually very flat with a slight slope.
monosaccharide	Any simple sugar with the formula (CH2O)n where n = 3 – 7.
bohr shift	A lowering of the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen, caused by a drop in pH; facilitates the release of oxygen from hemoglobin in the vicinity of active tissues.
atrovelutinus	velvety black.
buffer	A substance that consists of acid and base forms in a solution and that minimizes changes in pH when extraneous acids or bases are added to the solution.
actin filament	Helical protein filament formed by the polymerization of globular actin molecules
residue	General term for the unit of a polymer
suppression	the non-development of a part normally present.
delta sequence	Long terminal repeat in Ty elements of yeast.
predation	When one organism kills and consumes another.
tandem duplication	A duplication in which the repeated regions are immediately adjacent to one another.
panting	An increase in the rate of breathing; often serves to increase the rate of evaporative cooling by increasing air flow over moist surfaces of the airways of the breathing system.
pseudidolum	= nymph: q.v.
head	That part of the body at the "front" end, where the brain, mouth, and most sensory organs are located.
cyclic amp	An adenosine monophosphate molecule with the phosphate covalently attached to both the 3' and 5' carbons of the ribose.
decremental spread	Spread of a signal in such a way that signal strength decreases with distance
vesicant	blistering: able to produce a blister.
vector	modified plasmid used to carry DNA back into the bacterial "host"
super-family	a division of classification less than an order, including a series of family groups more closely related to each other than to similar groups within the order: opinionative and ending in oidea: sometimes hardly different from suborder; but lower than suborder when both terms are employed.
anoxic	Lack of oxygen
badius	liver-brown; clearer and lighter than castaneus [dragon's blood].
elliptical	oblong-oval, the ends equally rounded, together forming an even ellipsoid.
analytic reagent	Grade of chemical.
reciprocal cross	Cross in which females of genotype A are mated to males of genotype B and males of genotype A are mated to females of genotype B; useful in detecting sex-linkage, maternal effects, and cytoplasmic inheritance.
enterics	The common name for bacteria in the family Enterobacteriaceae.
substantia nigra	A group of nerve cells at the base of the midbrain that receives input from a number of nerve cells
tropical	Region in which the climate undergoes little seasonal change in either temperature or rainfall
fibre	a thread-like structure of any tissue.
dideoxynucleotide	A nucleotide lacking the 3'-hydroxyl group on the deoxyribose sugar
biogeochemical cycle	Any of the various nutrient circuits, which involve both biotic and abiotic components of ecosystems.
ancipital	with two opposite edges or angles.
hypotonic	Referring to an external solution whose solute concentration is low enough to cause water to move into cells due to osmosis.
genetic code	The set of triplet code words in DNA (or mRNA) coding for the amino acids of proteins.
nuclear envelope	Double membrane surrounding the nucleus
genetic marker	A locus that has a useful phenotype which can be used for genetic selections or screens.
hydrophobicity**	Hydrophobicity is the association of non-polar groups or molecules in an aqueous environment which arises from the tendency of water to exclude non polar molecules
peripodal membrane	the cell layer surrounding the peripodal cavities
electric potential	The difference in the amount of electric charge between a region of positive charge and a region of negative charge
n-acetylglucosamine and n-acetylmuramic acid	Sugar derivatives in the peptidoglycan layer of bacterial cell walls.
transposon	A segment of DNA capable of shifting from one position in the eukaryote genome to another
statistically significant	A result that is unlikely to be due to chance alone.
hierarchy	A term used in some evolutionary and developmental studies to designate increasing levels of complexity or organization.
essential amino acids	The amino acids that an animal cannot synthesize itself and must obtain from food
pasteurization	A process using mild heat to reduce the microbial level in heat-sensitive materials.
soil	Unconsolidated materials above bedrock.
omnivore	An animal that feeds on animals, but also on either live plants or dead ones (detritus).
screening	looking for evidence of a particular disease such as cancer in persons with no symptoms of disease.
glycosidase	An enzyme that removes sugar residues from its substrate.
free radicals	preventing them from reacting with other molecules.
semicircular canals	A three-part chamber of the inner ear that functions in maintaining equilibrium.
short-day plant	A plant that flowers (usually in late summer, fall, or winter) only when the light period is shorter than a critical length.
leukotriene	A type of prostaglandin produced by various white blood cells involved in the inflammatory and immune responses and in allergic reactions.
thigmotactic	contact-loving: applied to species that tend to live close together or in touch, one with the other.
duplex	Same as double helix.
dacryelcosis	/dack-ree-el-KOH-səs/ n
antigen	A substance, usually macromolecular , that induces a specific immune response.
proton acceptor	A functional group capable of accepting a proton from a proton donor molecule.
gene cloning	See DNA cloning.
template	A macromolecular mold or pattern for the synthesis of an informational macromolecule.
systematics	Field of biology that deals with the diversity of life
release factors	See termination factors.
accessioning	Receipt and recording of specimens delivered to laboratory.
maml	Microarray Markup Language - adopted from "XML, Extensible Markup Language" - that provides a framework for describing experiments done on all kinds of DNA arrays
phonetic	sound producing; applied to stridulating structures.
parsimony	Economy in the use of means to an end; the principle of accounting for observations by that hypothesis requiring the fewest or simplest assumptions that lack evidence; in systematics, the principle of invoking the minimal number of evolutionary changes to infer phylogenetic relationships.
bulk solution	Solution that is not immediately next to a membrane or other surface.
cardiac muscle	Muscle that forms the wall of the heart
prophylactic	Treatment, usually immunologic or chemotherapeutic, designed to protect an individual from a future attack by a pathogen.
coalescence	A statistical term used to describe relationships among different gene sequences that are all descended from a common ancestral sequence (the "coalescent")
steroids	Compounds that are derivatives of a tetracyclic structure composed of a cyclopentane ring fused to a substituted phenanthrene nucleus.
outer electrons	electrons that help account for many of the observed trends in chemical properties
affinis	related to: similar in structure or development.
muscimol	a hallucinogenic derivative of ibotenic acid; formed in Amanita muscaria when basidiomata are dried.
migration	As related to injections, the movement of material away from the injection site.
neocortex	Part of the cerebral cortex; constitutes about 85% of the human brain's total mass
potential energy	The energy stored by matter as a result of its location or spatial arrangement.
pupillate	spots or marks that have an eye-like centre.
messenger cascade	A process in which an initial message is greatly amplified in a cascade of ensuing messages, resulting in cellular change.
amino acid	Any one of the monomer units that are polymerized to form proteins.
dicot	/DIE-cawt/ n
stefan-boltzmann equation	An equation that relates the temperature of a surface and the rate at which the surface emits electromagnetic energy.
electron donor	A substance that donates electrons in an oxidation-reduction reaction
electrochemical proton gradient	The result of a combined pH gradient (proton gradient) and the membrane potential.
bootstrap	Recalculation of results with randomly rearranged datasets to exclude the possibility of artefacts in data clustering.
inferior	beneath, below or behind: a term of position.
depressed	flattened down vertically; opposed to compressed.
fad	Abbreviation for Flavin-adenine dinucleotide.
dendrogram	A tree-form diagram that is a graphic depiction of hierarchical relationships between sequences or organisms.
electron carrier	A molecule that conveys electrons; one of several membrane proteins in electron transport chains in cells
nitrification	The oxidation of ammonia or ammonium to nitrites and nitrates, as by nitrifying bacteria.
muricate -us	armed with sharp, rigid points.
ion channel	Any transmembrane protein complex that forms a water-filled channel across the phospholipid bilayer allowing selective ion transport down its electrochemical gradient
density dependent	The dependence of population growth and size on factors directly related to the numbers of individuals in a particular locality (for example, competition for food, accumulation of waste products).
map distance	The distance between two markers on the same chromosome based on recombination frequency, usually measured in centimorgans (cM).
eukaryote	Organism which possess a membrane bound nucleus that contains the organism's chromosomes.
dna tumor virus	A general term for a variety of different DNA viruses that can cause tumors.
de-etiolation	The changes a plant shoot undergoes in response to sunlight; also known informally as greening.
chromatography	A process in which complex mixtures of molecules are separated by many repeated partitionings between a flowing (mobile) phase and a stationary phase.
catalyst	A substance that promotes a chemical reaction by lowering the activation energy without itself being changed in the end
nm	see nanometer
proenzyme	An inactive enzyme precursor that is activated by proteolysis; a zymogen.
leprous	with loose, irregular scales.
white piedra	A fungal infection (tinea albigena) caused by the yeast Trichosporon beigelii that forms light-colored nodules on the beard and mustache.
hydrogen bond	A weak, noncovalent bond between a hydrogen atom and an electronegative atom such as oxygen.
randomized	In the context of a clinical trial, randomized refers to how the different treatments (either the potential drug or the standard treatment) are allocated to the trial subjects
integrated hypothesis	The concept, put forth by E E
clinical trial	The evaluation in humans of the effectiveness of a new drug therapy
order	A taxonomic category between class and family: a class may contain a number of orders, each of which contains a number of families.
phytophilous	plant loving: species that live on plants.
linkage	The co-inheritance of two DNA loci that are near each other on the same chromosome.
transposon	Sequence of DNA which is capable of replicating itself independent of replication of the nuclear genome, of excising itself from its current location in the genome, and of inserting itself elsewhere in the genome.
antibiogram	Distinctive pattern of susceptibility of an organism to a battery of antimicrobial agents.
progestin	One of a family of steroid hormones, including progesterone, that prepare the uterus for pregnancy.
monomers	The subunits linked together to form a polymer (for example, nucleotides in nucleic acids, amino acids in proteins, sugars in polysaccharides).
pineal gland	A small gland on the dorsal surface of the vertebrate forebrain that secretes the hormone melatonin.
externo-median nerve	the humeral and discoidal veins together.
lemniscate	ribbon-like: in the form of an 8.
sporangiophore	A stalk to which sporangia are attached.
variation	a departure in color or form, from the normal: the sum of the departures from a mean type of any species: it is continuous when there is no break between the extremes; discontinuous when there are gaps without intermediate forms.
coacervate	An aggregation of colloidal particles in liquid phase that persists for a period of time as suspended membranous droplets.
capillaries	Small, thin-walled blood vessels that allow oxygen to diffuse from the blood into the cells and carbon dioxide to diffuse from the cells into the blood.
aso	Antistreptolysin.
chapman cycle	set of natural steadystate reactions for stratospheric ozone
induced fit	A change in the shape of an enzyme that results from the binding of substrate.
productivity	The amount of carbon and energy fixed in photosynthesis by plants and other producers.
estrus	A period of sexual activity associated with ovulation
furanose	A simple sugar containing the five-membered furan ring.
standard deviation	Measure of variability, obtained as the square root of the variance
oligomeric protein	A multisubunit protein having two or more identical polypeptide chains.
beta-amyloid	A compound that tends to accumulate in the brains of people with Alzheimer's disease
stinkhorn	basidioma of some members of the order Phallales (Gasteromycetes).
deoxyribonucleotide	See: nucleotide.
lymphocytes	A subclass of leukocytes involved in the immune response
anion	a negatively charged ion
endonuclease	An enzyme that hydrolyzes the interior phosphodiester bonds of a nucleic acid; that is, it acts at points other than the terminal bonds.
benign	Describes tumors that are self-limiting in their growth and noninvasive.
modality	The subjective sensation of a particular sense, such as sight, taste, or hearing.
indeterminate growth	A type of growth characteristic of plants, in which the organism continues to grow as long as it lives.
cation exchange	A process in which positively charged minerals are made available to a plant when hydrogen ions in the soil displace mineral ions from the clay particles
polymer	Any large molecule composed of multiple identical or similar units (monomers) linked by covalent bonds.
organizer	see Spemann’s Organizer
reduction	The gain of electrons by a compound or ion.
antigen	Any substance, usually foreign, that binds specifically to an antibody.
microvilli	Thin fingerlike protrusions from the surface of a cell, often used to increase absorptive capacity or to trap food particles
battenin	The key protein involved in Batten disease.
terpenes	Organic hydrocarbons or hydrocarbon derivatives constructed from recurring isoprene units
contraction	The condition in which a muscle is activated to produce force
metacentric chromosome	Chromosome in which the two chromosome arms are approximately the same length.
perception	The interpretation of sensations by the brain.
adenosine triphosphate	A compound with high energy phosphate bonds that provide the energy for many cellular processes.
bradycardia	A heart rate that is unusually low.
allosteric regulation	Allosteric regulation is the regulation of the activity of allosteric enzymes
c4 plants	A plant that prefaces the Calvin cycle with reactions that incorporate CO2 into four-carbon compounds, the end product of which supplies CO2 for the Calvin cycle.
dolabriform	hatchet-shaped: compressed, with a prominent dilated keel and cylindrical base.
dimethyl sulfoxide	A colorless liquid that dissolves both polar and nonpolar compounds
edman degradation	A systematic method of sequencing proteins, proceeding by stepwise removal of single amino acids from the amino terminus of a polypeptide chain.
mitosis	A type of cell(nuclear) division in eukaryotes characterized by the production of identical daughter nuclei
adaptive radiation	The emergence of numerous species from a common ancestor introduced into an environment, presenting a diversity of new opportunities and problems.
differential centrifugation	Separation of cell organelles or other particles of different size by their different rates of sedimentation in a centrifugal field.
ribozymes	Ribonucleic acid molecules with catalytic activities; RNA enzymes.
hydrogen bond	A weak electrostatic bond which arises from the attraction between the slight positive charge on a hydrogen atom and a slight negative charge on a nearby oxygen or nitrogen atom.
monomethyl hydrazine	see GYROMITRIN.
fistular	like a slender, cylindrical tube.
holoenzyme	A catalytically active enzyme including all necessary subunits, prosthetic groups, and cofactors.
sexual reproduction	A type of reproduction in which two parents give rise to offspring that have unique combinations of genes inherited through the gametes of the two parents
passive transport	The transport of a material by a mechanism that is capable of carrying the material only in the direction of equilibrium.
expected heterozygosity	Proportion of individuals that are expected to be heterozygous at a locus when the Hardy-Weinberg assumptions are met.
atherosclerosis	The clogging, narrowing, and hardening of the blood vessels that can lead to stroke, heart attack, and kidney problems.
femtomole	One quadrillionth mole; 1015.
hydrogen bond	Noncovalent bond in which an electropositive hydrogen atom is partially shared by two electronegative atoms.
flower	Collection of reproductive structures found in flowering plants
ultramarine	an intense deep blue [cobalt blue].
viraemia	The presence of viruses in the blood.
colony-stimulating factor	General name for the numerous signal molecules that control the differentiation of blood cells.
coarctate	contracted: compacted: applied to that form of pupa in which all the members of the future adult are concealed by a thickened, usually cylindric case or covering, which is often the hardened skin of the larva: beginning with a narrow base, then dilated and thickened.
carbon nanotubes	nano-sized tubes of pure carbon with wall thicknesses as thin as a single atom
arc	AIDS-related complex; Anomalous retinal correspondence.
direct measurement	A measurement procedure that quantifies a property by measuring exactly what the definition of the property specifies
genealogy	Record of descent tracing genetic relationships of individuals.
molds	Fossils formed when the sediment surrounding a buried organism hardens
mutarotation	The change in optical rotation of a sugar that is observed immediately after it is dissolved in aqueous solution, as the result of the slow approach of equilibrium of a pyranose or a furanose in its alpha and beta forms.
rubp	Ribulose bi phosphate
french paradox	The finding that the rate of heart disease in France is lower than observed in other industrialized countries, despite the fact that the country's diet is rich in saturated fats.
s-adenosylmethionine	An enzymatic cofactor involved in methyl group transfers.
cyanobacteria	bacteria that are aquatic and photosynthetic
melt curve	A plot of fluorescence vs
glycogen	A very long, branched polysaccharide, composed exclusively of glucose units, that is the primary storage carbohydrate in animal cells
16s rrna	A large polynucleotide (about 1500 bases) which functions as a part of the small subunit of the ribosome of prokaryotes and from whose sequence evolutionary information can be obtained; the eukaryotic counterpart is 18S rRNA.
michaelis-menten kinetics	A kinetic pattern in which the initial rate of an enzyme-catalyzed reaction exhibits a hyperbolic dependence on substrate concentration.
neutral solution	a solution that is neither acidic nor basic; that is, one that has equal concentrations of H+ and OH-
class i mhc molecule	One of the two classes of MHC molecule
regulon	A group of genes or operons that are coordinately regulated even though some, or all, may be spatially distant within the chromosome or genome.
pesticide rotation	Systematic change in the pesticide used to control a pest.
sample size	Number of individuals drawn from a larger pool of individuals.
b form	The most common form of duplex DNA, containing a right-handed helix and about 10 (10.5 exactly) base pairs per turn of the helix axis.
tectonic	adj
cross-bedding	n
trichomycetes	an inconspicuous Class of Zygomycota, found attached to the gut walls of insects.
epitope	Antigenic determinant.
antiparallel	Describes the relative orientation of the two strands in a DNA double helix; the polarity of one strand is oriented in the opposite direction to that of the other.
radiation	The emission of electromagnetic waves by all objects warmer than absolute zero.
redox couple	An electron donor and its corresponding oxidized form.
coalescent	united or grown together.
diploid	/DIP-loid/ adj
amorph	An allele that does not produce a product or an effect on the phenotype.
trachea	The windpipe; that portion of the respiratory tube that has C-shaped cartilagenous rings and passes from the larynx to two bronchi.
nystatin	an antifungal antibiotic derived from Streptomyces noursei, used to treat candidiasis.
rab	A family of small GTP-binding proteins that play key roles in vesicular transport.
urea	The water soluble nitrogenous waste product of mammals and some other vertebrates that is formed by a combination of carbon dioxide and ammonia
polar molecule	A molecule (such as water) with opposite charges on opposite sides.
malignant	Referring to a tumor or tumor cells that can invade surrounding normal tissue and/or undergo metastasis
rt	See reverse transcription.
fluorescein	Dye that fluoresces green when exposed to blue or ultraviolet light.
temperate virus	A virus that can reproduce without killing the host.
plate tectonics	The concept that the earth's crust is divided into a number of fairly rigid plates, whose movements (tectonics) relative to each other are responsible for continental drift and many crustal features
gamete intrafallopian transfer	An infertility treatment in which sperm and oocytes are placed in a woman's uterine tube.
auxotrophic requirement	A nutritional supplement required for growth of an auxotrophic strain.
phyletic evolution	Evolutionary changes within a single nonbranching lineage
zinc finger	A DNA-binding protein motif that contains residues that coordinate a zinc ion which creates a finger-like loop.
bionics	The use of information derived from living systems to build electromechanical systems.
minimum recognition unit	The complementarity determining region of an antibody.
oxidative phosphorylation	The formation of ATP as the result of the transfer of electrons to oxygen.
protein targeting	The process by which newly synthesized proteins are sorted and transported to their proper locations in the cell.
spent nuclear fuel	radioactive material remaining in fuel rods after they have been used to generate power in a nuclear reactor
proterotypes	primary types, including all the material upon which the original description is based.
chirotype	a specimen upon which a manuscript name is based.
dehydrate	/də-HIGH-drate, dee-/ v
seasonal polyphenism	A phenomenon seen in some insects that go through two or more generations per year, in which genetically identical individuals can assume two or more discrete, highly distinct body forms depending on the season during which they develop.
dactyloid	/DAKT-əl-oid/ adj
brown rot	wood rot produced by a basidiomycete that can degrade cellulose but not lignin.
immunoconjugate	An antibody conjugated to a molecule, such as a fluorescent label or an enzyme, that produces a colorimetric product.
coliform	Gram-negative, nonsporing, facultative rods that ferment lactose with gas formation within 48 hours at 35 °C
corrugated	wrinkled; with alternate ridges and channels.
oceanic trench	Deep steep-sided depression in the ocean floor caused by the subduction of oceanic crust beneath either other oceanic crust or continental crust.
lepis	a scale.
constitutive enzymes	Enzymes required at all times by a cell and present at some constant level; for example, many enzymes of the central metabolic pathways
nucleosome	Spherical bodies formed by coils of chromatin
broad spectrum	(of fungicides) active against a wide range of organisms.
dalton	A measure of mass for atoms and subatomic particles.
sea floor spreading	Expansion of oceanic crust through the deposition of mantle material along oceanic ridges
kinetic energy	energy of motion
homologuous recombination	Exchange of sequence information between two homologous DNA molecules
ammonotelic	Incorporating most nitrogen from the catabolism of nitrogenous compounds into ammonia
heart	A muscular pump that uses metabolic energy to elevate hydrostatic pressure of the blood
pg2	A class of prostaglandins that is known to have pro-inflammatory effects such as increasing pain, decreasing oxygen flow, constricting airways, and increasing inflammation.
conducting system	A system of specialized muscle cells by which depolarization spreads throughout the vertebrate heart.
oxygen	An element with eight protons and eight electrons and with an atomic mass averaging a bit over 16
eucoelomates	See Coelom.
irised	with rainbow colors.
bioluminescence	the production of light by a chemical reaction within an organism
phosphoanhydride bond	A type of high-energy bond formed between two phosphate groups, such as the γ and β phosphates and the β and α phosphates in ATP
inductive reasoning	Reasonong from a series of specific observations to a set of one or more general principles.For example, Darwin used sets of observations of the fossil record, the distribution of organisms, and the structure of organisms to infer natural selection that natural selection is a general concept helping to explain the diversity of life on Earth.
svedberg	A unit of measure of the rate at which a particle sediments in a centrifugal field.
activated complex	The highest free energy state of a complex in going from reactants to products.
cladogenesis	klad-uh-JEN-uh-suhs/ Evolutionary change that produces a clade
electrospray	A method for generating a fine spray of highly charged droplets.
natural logarithm	The logarithm (log) to base e where e ≈ 2.718
archea	Members of one of the two major divisions of procaryotes (the Archea), the other being the Bacteria.
nitrogenous base	An aromatic nitrogen-containing molecule with basic properties
epidermis	Epithelial layer covering the outer surface of the body
regulation	The maintenance of internal conditions at an approximately constant level while external conditions vary.
ph	A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution defined as the negative logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration in moles per liter: pH=−log [H+]
rad	unit of radiation that indicates absorption of 0.01 J of radiant energy per kilogram of tissue
dorsi-meson	the middle of the upper surface.
estrogen	A steroid hormone produced by the ovaries.
stressor	Any agent that causes stress to an organism.
sucession	The predictable change that occurs to assemblages in the context of a natural disturbance regimen.
krebs cycle	A series of chemical reactions involved in aerobic respiration that occur naturally in animals
exponential growth	Growth of a microorganism where the cell number doubles within a fixed time period.
consumer	Any organism which must consume other organisms (living or dead) to satisfy its energy needs
lytic cycle	Series of events in which a virus enters and replicates within a host cell to produce new viral particles eventually causing lysis of the cell
inquiry	The search for information and explanation, often focused by specific questions.
ligulate	strap-shaped; linear, much longer than broad.
red bed	n
placebo	Any intentionally ineffective medical treatment, such as a sugar pill, used to replace medication
dna helicase	Enzyme that is involved in opening the DNA helix into its single strands for DNA replication.
infringing	encroaching upon.
acidophile	Organism that grows best under acid conditions (down to a pH of 1).
locus	In genetics, the position of a gene on a chromosome
dentes caninae	see canine teeth.
radical	An atom or group of atoms possessing an unpaired electron; also called a free radical.
arbuscular mycorrhiza	Mycorrhizal type that forms highly branched arbuscules within root cortical cells.
ligase	An enzyme that links together the 3′ end of one nucleic acid strand with the 5′ end of another, forming a continuous strand.
bipolar disorder	also known as manic-depression, this disorder is characterized by alternating periods of extreme moods
bald	without hair or other surface vestiture: see bare.
miso	an Oriental food product, used for soups and as flavouring agent, composed of rice and cereals + soybeans fermented by Aspergillus oryzae and Saccharomyces rouxii.
parts per million	1 part out of a million parts, unit of concentration
oospore	thick-walled resting spore developing from a fertilized egg of the Oomycetes.
multiple-hypothesis testing	Testing more than one hypothesis within an experiment
exude	to ooze or flow slowly through minute openings.
rimose	full of cracks.
radioisotope	a type of atom (or a chemical which is made with a type of atom) that emits radioactivity
trans fat	A highly damaging type of fat which is produced when unsaturated fat is subjected to the process of hydrogenation.
oscillation	a vibrating or swinging from side to side.
infra-genital	below the genital opening or process.
apoptosis	Regulated process leading to cell death via a series of well-defined morphological changes; also called programmed cell death
granite	A coarse-grained igneous rock commonly intruded into continental crust.
coprolites	Fossilized feces.
archetype	The concept of an ideal primitive plan ("Bauplan") on which organisms, such as vertebrates, are presumably based
non-coding region	A segment of DNA that does not comprise a gene and thus does not code for a protein
farinose	dotted with many single, flour-like spots: mealy.
secondary immune response	The acquired immune response elicited on second or subsequent exposures to a particular antigen
ion	An atom or molecule carrying a positive or negative electrostatic charge.
gynandromorphic	when an individual of one sex exhibits on one lateral half the organic characters of the other, more or less completely.
somatic nervous system	That part of the peripheral nervous system which is under voluntary control..ok more or less under voluntary control
peripheral nervous system	The part of the nervous system consisting of everything but the brain and spinal cord
panorpatae	= Mecoptera; q.v
protandry	the appearance of males earlier in the season than females.
hypertonic	Referring to an external solution whose solute concentration is high enough to cause water to move out of cells due to osmosis.
diffusion	See simple diffusion.
blood	The fluid (including suspended cells) that is circulated within the circulatory system.
yolk	Nutrients stored in an egg.
source habitat	A habitat where reproduction exceeds mortality and from which excess individuals disperse.
toxoid	A toxin modified so that it is no longer toxic but is still able to induce antibody formation.
enthalpy change	For a reaction, is approximately equal to the difference between the energy used to break bonds and the energy gained by the formation of new ones.
root	Usually the below ground portion of a plant
heterozygous	Refers to an individual organism that possesses two different alleles at a locus.
sex chromosomes	The X and Y 
carcinogen	A physical or chemical agent that causes cancer.
mark	See epigenetic mark.
aseptic	free or freed from contaminating organism(s); (of microbiological technique) pertains to working under sterile conditions and using sterile techniques, e.g., working in a laminar flow bench, using flame sterilized inoculating loops and instruments.
excimer	An adduct between a molecule that has been excited by a photon and a second molecule.
peripheral membrane protein	Protein that is attached to one face of a membrane by noncovalent interactions with other membrane proteins, and which can be removed by relatively gentle treatments that leave the lipid bilayer intact.
molal	A unit of measure of chemical concentration; specifically, the molal concentration is the number of moles mixed with a kilogram of water to make a solution.
segmentation	In many animals, the body is divided into repeated subunits called segments, such as those in centipedes, insects, and annelids
dysplasia	/dis-PLAYZ-yə/ n
electron carrier	Any molecule or atom that accepts electrons from donor molecules and transfers them to acceptor molecules
ataxia	Loss of motor coordination.
second maxillary segment	the seventh or labial segment of head.
purple sulfur bacteria	A group of phototrophic prokaryotes containing bacteriochlorophylls a or b and characterized by the ability to oxideze hydrogen sulfide (H2S) and store elemental sulfur inside the cells.
synaptic terminal	A bulb at the end of an axon in which neurotransmitter molecules are stored and released.
plankton	Mostly microscopic organisms that drift passively or swim weakly near the surface of oceans, ponds, and lakes.
gram stain	A differential stain that divides bacteria into two groups, gram-positive and gram-negative based on the ability to retain crystal violet when decolorized with an organic solvent such as ethanol.
ninhydrin reaetion	A color reaction given by amino acids and peptides on heating with ninhydrin; widely used for their detection and estimation.
oxic	Containing oxygen; aerobic
oligomer	Short polymer, usually consisting (in a cell) of amino acids (oligopeptides), sugars (oligosaccharides), or nucleotides (oligonucleotides)
cytochrome oxidase complex	Another term for Complex IV.
indeterminate	not defined nor well marked; obscure: of no constant form or shape.
prototroph	A microorganism strain that requires the same nutrients as the wild-type strain.
cdc gene	see cell-division-cycle gene
aminoacyl-trna	Activated form of an amino acid, used in protein synthesis, consisting of an amino acid linked via a highenergy ester bond to the 3′-hydroxyl group of a tRNA molecule
vertebrate	An animal whose nerve cord is surrounded by a backbone
immunosuppression	Suppression of the immune response.
autotroph	In reference to carbon source - an organism which uses carbon dioxide (CO2) as the sole carbon source
apomorphic	Having a derived character or state, with reference to another character or state
terpenes	A diverse group of lipids made from isoprene precursors.
dna polymerase	/pə-LIM-er-aze/ n
slow block to polyspermy	The formation of the fertilization envelope and other changes in the egg's surface that prevent fusion of the egg with more than one sperm.
heterochrony	an irregular development in point of time, a later stage becoming evident before one that is earlier in ordinary course.
dark reactions	Reactions that can occur in the dark, in a process that is usually associated with light, such as the dark reactions of photosynthesis.
lumen	The open central cavity or core of a “hollow” organ or tissue; for example, the open central core of a blood vessel.
solitary-arius	occurring singly or in pairs; not in colonies.
trochus	that part of an articulated body inserted between the joints.
auroreous -eus	red, like the aurora borealis [crimson lake].
imprinting	Imprinting is a kind of learning that takes place during certain critical periods of an organism’s life during which rapid and often irreversible fixation on presented stimuli happens
background radiation	the radiation, on average, that exists at a particular location, usually due to natural sources
truncation	To shorten
macromolecular crystal	A crystal whose lattice structure is based on macromolecules.
motor protein	Protein that uses energy derived from nucleoside triphosphate hydrolysis to propel itself along a protein filament or another polymeric molecule.
substratum	Solid surface to which a cell adheres.
heterozygosity	In a population, the proportion of loci at which a randomly chosen individual is heterozygous, on average.
decomposers	Saprotrophic fungi and bacteria that absorb nutrients from nonliving organic material such as corpses, fallen plant material, and the wastes of living organisms, and convert them into inorganic forms.
dryopithecine	/DRY-oh-PITH-ə-seen/ n
catabolic reactions	Reactions in cells in which existing chemical bonds are broken and molecules are broken down; generally produce
beta configuration	A protein configuration in which two beta strands are hydrogen bonded to each another.
heteroduplex	A double-stranded DNA molecule containing one or more mispaired bases.
hemoglobin	A heme protein in erythrocytes; functions in oxygen transport.
cymbiform	boat-shaped: a concave disc with elevated margin; navicular.
aurelian	a lepidopterist.
microspheres	Microscopic membrane-bound spheres formed when proteinoids are boiled in water and allowed to cool
autologous	Derived from the same organism.
fission yeast	Common name often given to the yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe, a common experimental organism
major depression	Depressive mental illness characterized by experiencing a low mood most of the time.
false morel	Gyromitra esculenta (Ascomycetes), which is poisonous; see GYROMITRIN.
atmosphere	A unit of measure for pressure
r group	(1) Formally, an abbreviation denoting any alkyl group
gene therapy	treating disease by replacing, manipulating, or supplementing nonfunctional genes.
crocus	=croceous.
hydrophobic interaction	The attractive force between molecules due to the close positioning of nonhydrophilic portions of the two molecules.
auxin	A plant growth hormone.
supra-	over; above.
adenosine triphosphate	see ATP
mass spectrometry	Technique uesed to measure and analyse a substance in terms of the ratios of mass to charge of its components.
phagolysosome	A lysosome that has fused with a phagosome or autophagosome.
mutation	A change in the make-up of the genetic material of an organism
transposon	A transposable genetic element that moves as a unit and inserts at new locations.
gross primary production	The total primary production of an ecosystem.
ihs	Indian Health Services
mafic	Term used to describe the amount of dark-colored iron and magnesium minerals in an igneous rock
rhodopsin	G-protein-linked light-sensitive receptor protein in the rod photoreceptor cells of the retina.
consperse	irregularly dotted or sprinkled.
ochre codon	The UAA stop codon.
perfoliate	divided into leaf-like plates: applied to antennae with disc-like expansions connected by a stalk passing nearly through their centres: also to any part possessing a well-developed leaf-like or plate-like expansion.
genomics	The systematic and comprehensive analysis of the structure and function of the genome with the aim to identify and understand the role of genes.
alzheimer's disease	a disease that causes memory loss, personality changes, dementia and, ultimately, death
excited state	An energy-rich state of an atom or a molecule, produced by the absorption of radiant energy.
quaternary structure	In proteins, the number and arrangement of individual polypeptides in the final protein molecule.
sonoran faunal areas	see upper and lower Sonoran.
restriction analysis	Determination of the number and sizes of the DNA fragments produced when a particular DNA molecule is cut with a particular restriction endonuclease.
imponderable	that which cannot be weighed.
aureous -eus	gold-colored.
cuspidate	prickly pointed; ending in a sharp point; with an acuminated point ending in a bristle.
intrusion	Igneous rock that is inserted within or between geological strata rather than on the earth's surface.
anaphylactic shock	An acute, whole-body, life-threatening, allergic response.
prednisolone	Similar to prednisone in its high glucocorticoid activity
supercilium	an arched line over an ocellate spot.
gene flow	The movement of alleles from one population to another via migration and interbreeding of migrant individuals.
halophile	Organism which lives in areas of high salt concentration
mitosis	The normal process of nuclear division in a eukaryote, whereby nuclear division occurs on a spindle structure without reduction in the chromosome number in the daughter nuclei.
sulfhydryl group	A functional group consisting of a sulfur atom bonded to a hydrogen atom (-SH).
allosteric site	The specific site on the surface of an allosteric enzyme molecule to which the modulator or effector molecule is bound.
bowman's capsule	A cup-shaped receptacle in the vertebrate kidney that is the initial, expanded segment of the nephron where filtrate enters from the blood.
nucleic acid probe	A strand of nucleic acid which can be labeled and used to hybridize to a complementary molecule from a mixture of other nucleic acids
chaos theory	The study of iterative non-linear systems in which arbitrarily small variations in initial conditions become magnified over time
metazoa	Multicellular animals.
involucrate	= involute.
culicifuge	any preparation for driving away gnats or mosquitoes.
polynucleotide	A chain structure containing nucleotides linked together by phosphodiester (5'-3') bonds
biosorption	The sequestering of chemicals by a biological system.
freezing-point depression	The difference (sign ignored) between the freezing point of a solution and the freezing point of pure water
glucocorticoid	A steroid hormone secreted by the adrenal cortex that influences glucose metabolism and immune function.
cloning vector	A small DNA molecule, usually derived from a bacteriophage or plasmid, which is used to carry the fragment of DNA to be cloned into the recipient cell, and which enables the DNA fragment to be replicated.
rhyolite	Highly felsic igneous volcanic rock, typically light in color; rough volcanic equivalent of granite.
detrivore	Any organism which obtains most of its nutrients from the detritus in an ecosystem.
translation	The process in which the genetic information present in an mRNA molecule specifies the sequence of amino acids during protein synthesis.
operator	A region of DNA that interacts with a repressor protein to control the expression of a gene or group of genes.
heterotrophs	Animals — including herbivores, carnivores, and omnivores — that feed on other living organisms.
mycorrhizae	Symbiotic association between a fungus and the roots or rhizoids of a plant
redox potential	The affinity of a redox pair for electrons, generally measured as the voltage difference between an equimolar mixture of the pair and a standard reference
estrous cycle	The reproductive cycle of a female characterized by ovulation and acceptance of the male at regular intervals.
sepal	The outermost structures of a flower
precipitation	A reaction between antibody and soluble antigen resulting in a visible mass of antibody-antigen complexes.
saxitoxin	neurotoxin found in a variety of dinoflagellates
hydrophobicity*	Hydrophobicity is the association of non-polar groups or molecules in an aqueous environment which arises from the tendency of water to exclude non polar molecules
evaporative cooling	The property of a liquid whereby the surface becomes cooler during evaporation, owing to a loss of highly kinetic molecules to the gaseous state
tropical	is that faunal region which covers the southern part of the peninsula of Florida, the greater part of Central America, the lowlands of southern Mexico south of the table land, and a narrow strip on each side of Mexico which follows the coast northward into the United States.
phylogenetic tree	A branching diagram that represents a hypothesis about evolutionary relationships.
essentialism	The philosophical view that all members of a class of objects (such as a species) share certain invariant, unchanging properties that distinguish them from other classes.
character	A feature or trait.
halotolerant	An organism capable of growing in the presence of NaCl but not requiring it.
negative regulator	One molecule that controls the effects of another (or itself) by repressing or inactivating it.
umber	The codon UGA
desaturases	Enzymes that catalyze the introduction of double bonds into the hydrocarbon portion of fatty acids.
immobilized enzyme	An enzyme attached to a solid support over which substrate is passed and is converted into product.
exasperate -us	rough with irregular elevations.
coenzyme	A coenzyme is a dissociable, low-molecular weight, non-proteinaceous organic compound (often nucleotide) participating in enzymatic reactions as acceptor or donor of chemical groups or electrons.
ethanol precipitation	Precipitation of nucleic acid molecules by ethanol plus salt
reporter	In real-time PCR, a molecule whose fluorescence is proportional to the amount of amplified product in a sample.
peptide bond	a chemical bond linking two amino acid residues within a polypeptide; during protein synthesis, the peptide bond forms between two amino acids which are held side by side on the ribosome.
glycosidic bond	The bond between a sugar and an alcohol
grp-78	A protein chaperone that, along with HSP-70, can help regulate protein folding and degradation, as well as help balance calcium levels in cells.
extrachromosomal	External to the chromosome.
ultraviolet radiation	The part of the invivible electromagnetic spectrum (just below violet) with wavelengths between about 100-400 nm.
passive transport	Transport of a solute across a membrane down its concentration gradient or its electrochemical gradient, using only the energy stored in the gradient.
neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses	A group of rare, inherited degenerative disorders of the nervous system; associated with the accumulation of an abnormal pigment in the brain called lipofuscin
s-cdk	Complex formed in vertebrate cells by an S-cyclin and the corresponding cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk).
ion	an atom or small molecule which carries a positive or negative charge.
blood	A type of connective tissue with a fluid matrix called plasma in which blood cells are suspended
dominant	In genetics, refers to the member of a pair of alleles that is expressed in the phenotype of the organism while the other allele is not, even though both alleles are present
cinnabarine	[vermilion red].
homoeologous chromosomes	Chromosomes which are similar in that they carry most of the same loci but are not fully homologous since they are derived from different, though related, species.
oogenesis	The process in the ovary that results in the production of female gametes.
chromatid	One of the two sister products of a eukaryotic chromosome replication, marked by an attachment between the sister chromatids at the centromere region
cytoskeleton	A three-dimensional network of
long-term memory	The ability to hold, associate, and recall information over one's life.
morbidity	Incidence of disease in a population, including both fatal and nonfatal cases.
biocide	A compound that is toxic to living systems.
bidactylate	with two fingers or finger-like processes.
glia	Another term for neuroglia.
aerobe	An organism that utilizes oxygen for growth.
occlusor	applied to muscles which close an opening; e.g
confidence interval	A statistical range with a given probability associated with it
plaited	longitudinally folded or laid in pleats.
source of error	limitation in an experimental procedure that produces unreliable results.
fatty acid	A long carbon chain carboxylic acid
active sites	Specific regions of an enzyme that bind substrates on which the enzyme acts.
defined medium	A medium whose exact chemical composition is quantitatively known
transpirational water loss	Water loss across the integument of an animal that occurs without sweating or any other active mechanism of transporting water across the integument; passive water loss across the integument.
capacitor	Two conducting plates separated by an insulating layer
paint fungi	wood-inhabiting basidiomycetes with thin, spread out, indefinite basidiomata; many Corticiaceae and Thelephoraceae: Aphyllophorales.
amino acid	Organic molecule containing both an amino group and a carboxyl group
acutangulate	forming, or meeting in an acute angle.
gene copy number	see copy number.
hydrogenation	process in which hydrogen gas, in the presence of a metal catalyst, is added to a double bond and converts it to a single bond
temperature	property of matter that determines the direction of heat flow
inositol phospholipids	A lipid family characterized by phosphorylated inositol derivatives
taxon	The named taxonomic unit (e.g., Homo sapiens, Hominidae, or Mammalia) to which individuals, or sets of species, are assigned.
calcareous	kal-KARE-ee-uhs/ Containing, or composed of, calcium carbonate.
sugar	Any monosaccharide or disaccharide.
glycosidic bond	A type of covalent bond that links sugar units together in a polysaccharide.
arrhythmias	myocardial ischemia and myocardial infarction.
actinomycetes	Gram-positive bacteria that can for m branching filaments
ion	An atom or molecule with a positive or negative electrical charge
signature	An alternative term for motif or pattern.
detergent	An agent that reduces the surface tension of a liquid
peptide bond	Covalent bond that links adjacent amino acid residues in proteins; formed by a condensation reaction between the amino group of one amino acid and the carboxyl group of another with release of a water molecule
pangea	n
substrate	Substance on which an enzyme acts in biochemical reactions; or, in hybridisation arrays, the particular material onto which the biomolecules are deposited
replica plating	A technique for transferring an identical pattern of bacterial colonies from one petrie plate (the master plate) to a series of other plates containing different media
trisomic	A chromosomal condition in which a particular cell has an extra copy of one chromosome, instead of the normal two; the cell is said to be trisomic for that chromosome.
inflorescences	A group or cluster of flowers arranged on a stem that is composed of a main branch or a complicated arrangement of branches.
massively parallel computing	High-performance computing based on the development of parallel processing algorithms and applications that can be executed simultaneously by many separate processors.
vitamin	organic molecule with a wide range of physiological functions
complex ii	One of the electron transport chain proteins
perennial	A flowering plant that lives for many years.
light reactions	The reactions of photosynthesis that require light and cannot occur in the dark; also known as the light-dependent reactions.
dehydrogenase	/də-high-DRAW-jən-aze, dee-/ n
secondary metabolite	A product excreted by a microorganism near the end of the growth phase or during stationary phase.
axon	Long nerve cell process that is capable of rapidly conducting nerve impulses over long distances so as to deliver signals to other cells.
macrophage	Literally a “big eater”
ylid	A compound in which adjacent, covalently-bonded atoms, both having an electronic octet, have opposite charges.
xic	see X-inactivation center
polysaccharide	Linear or branched polymer of monosaccharides
heat	A transfer of thermal energy.
tri-undulate	with three waves or undulations.
wild-type	Normal, nonmutant form of an organism; the form found in nature (in the wild).
spatulate	rounded and broad at top, attenuate at base.
traits	Physical characteristics.
protoplasm	A general term referring to the entire contents of a living cell.
anaerogenic	Non-gas-producing.
trisomy 8	Presence of three copies of chromosome 8; in humans, results in mental retardation, contracted fingers and toes, low-set malformed ears, and a prominent forehead.
canidae	KAN-uh-DEE/ The mammalian family that contains dogs and other doglike animals.
ppar-gamma	Proteins that inhibit the expression of genes that code for proteins involved in inflammation.
facultative aerobe	An organism that can use molecular oxygen in its metabolism but that also can live anaerobically.
metabolism	The process of cells burning food to produce energy
mass selection	Selection based on individuals (their own phenotypic performance).
ig superfamily	Large family of proteins that contain immunoglobulin domains or immunoglobulin-like domains
extein	A protein-splicing product formed after the excision of an intein.
cladogram	A diagram depicting patterns of shared characteristics among species.
chloroplasts	An organelle found only in plants and photosynthetic protists that absorbs sunlight and uses it to drive the synthesis of organic compounds from carbon dioxide and water.
ichthyologist	Biologists who specialize in the study of fish behavior, anatomy, physiology, and evolution.
iris-pigment	= iris tapetum.
reproductive effort	The proportion of energy or materials that an organism allocates to reproduction rather than to growth and maintenance.
transcribe	To undergo transcription
independent variable	A variable that influences the measure of a second characteristic (the dependent variable).
magnetic resonance imaging	An imaging technique that produces cross-sectional images for medical research
genomic epidemiology	The genome-wide study of the relation between genetic variation and disease.
psychrophile	An organism that grows optimally at low temperatures.
pathogenic	Organism which causes a disease within another organism.
3' end	The end of a nucleic acid that lacks a nucleotide bound at the 3' position of the terminal residue.
polar covalent bonds	a type of covalent bond between atoms that differ in electronegativity
segregrate	See segregration below.
isomers	molecules with the same chemical formula (same number and kinds of atoms), but with different structures and properties
glycoprotein	A protein containing a carbohydrate group.
early-onset hd	Another term for juvenile HD.
malaria	Potentially fatal human disease caused by the protozoan parasite Plasmodium, which is transmitted by the bite of an infected mosquito.
c.i.	See confidence interval.
hydrophobic	Describes a nonpolar molecule or part of a molecule that cannot form energetically favorable interactions with water molecules and therefore does not dissolve in water
hydrolysis	A chemical process that lyses, or splits, molecules by the addition of water; an essential process in digestion.
disease	Organisms suffer from disease when their normal function is impaired by some genetic disorder, or more often from the activity of a parasite or other organism living within them
genetic counseling	Educational process that attempts to help patients and family members deal with all aspects of a genetic condition.
radical prostatectomy	an operation to remove the entire prostate gland and seminal vesicles – see our paper: Radical Prostatectomy.
hermaphroditic	Possessing both male and female reproductive organs.
common garden	A place in which (usually conspecific) organisms, perhaps from different geographic populations, are reared together, enabling the investigator to ascribe variation among them to genetic rather than environmental differences
asymmetric carbon atom	A carbon atom bonded to four different atoms; also called chiral carbon atom
selective media	Growth media that only allow growth of mutant or recombinant cells with a particular phenotype grow
anion	A negatively charged ion.
dipole	A molecule having both positive and negative charges.
soil water potential-	Amount of work that must be done per unit quantity of pure water in order to transport reversibly and isothermically an infinitesimal quantity of water from a pool of pure water, at a specified elevation and at atmospheric pressure, to the soil water (at the point under consideration)
ami	Antibody-mediated immune response.
first filial generation	First generation of progeny produced from the mating of different purebreeding strains
efficiency of energy transformation	In any process that transforms high-grade energy from one form to another, the output of high-grade energy expressed as a ratio of the input of high-grade energy
frequency-dependent selection	A decline in the reproductive success of a morph resulting from the morph's phenotype becoming too common in a population; a cause of balanced polymorphism in populations.
mute	silent: without power to produce audible sound.
volcanic arc	n
controlled experiment	An experiment in which an experimental group is compared to a control group that varies only in the factor being tested.
acth	Abbreviation of adrenocorticotropic hormone.
life	The capability of performing various organismic functions such as metabolism, growth, and reproduction of genetic material.
dms	Dimethyl sulfate.
huntington study group	"A non-profit group of physicians and other health care providers from medical centers in the U.S., Canada, Europe and Australia, experienced in the care of Huntington patients and dedicated to clinical research of Huntington's disease."
k-selection	The concept that in certain (K-selected) populations, life history is centered around producing relatively few offspring that have a good chance of survival.
self-renewal	The ability of a self to divide continuously to produce more copies of itself.
bipedal	adj
immonology	The study of immunity and immune system.
transposition	The movement of a piece of DNA around the chromosome, usually through the function of a transposable element.
simplex	Autotetraploid possessing only one copy of a reference allele
coding region	The genomic sequence between start and stop codons.
acetyl	Chemical group derived from acetic acid
transcellular transport	Transport of solutes, such as nutrients, across an epithelium, by means of membrane transport proteins in the apical and basal faces of the epithelial cells.
cell cycle control system	A cyclically operating set of molecules in the cell that triggers and coordinates key events in the cell cycle.
fault	n
earth balls	the non-ostiolate basidiomata of the Sclerodermatales.
hemagglutination	Agglutination of red blood cells.
grain	(1) The texture of wood, produced by the kinds of xylem cells present
ultraviolet radiation	Electromagnetic radiation at wavelengths between about 4 and 400 nanometers, shorter than visible light but longer than X-rays
meroblastic cleavage	A type of cleavage in which there is incomplete division of yolk-rich egg, characteristic of avian development.
sampling error	Deviations from expected ratios due to chance occurrences when the number of events is small.
ventral	Situated toward the belly surface of an animal, or towards the underside of a wing or leaf.
mitogen-activated protein kinase	see MAP-kinase
primary structure	The level of protein structure referring to the specific sequence of amino acids.
conformer	A characterization of an animal in regard to environmental variables
polyphenic development	A developmental phenomenon in which one individual—or a set of genetically identical individuals—can assume two or more discrete, highly distinct body forms, induced by differences in the developmental environment
functional group	The specific atom or group of atoms that confers a particular chemical property on a biomolecule.
competitive immunoassay	An assay based on the competition of labeled antigen and unlabeled antigen (from the sample) for antibody binding sites.
beta-amyloid fibrils	A group primarily composed of proteins that lay flatly upon one another like sheets of paper
smooth muscle	Muscle that consists of small, spindle-shaped, uninucleate cells without striations
fluorescein	Fluorescent dye that fluoresces green when illuminated with blue light or ultraviolet light.
food chain	The pathway along which food is transferred from trophic level to trophic level, beginning with producers.
convection	The mass movement of warmed air or liquid to or from the surface of a body or object.
atropurpureus	dark purplish, nearly black [an admixture of mauve and black].
ribonuclease	A nuclease that catalyzes the hydrolysis of certain internucleotide linkages of RNA.
permissiveness	A type of relationship between hormones in which one hormone must be present to allow another hormone to exert its effect.
sclerophyllous	Hard, leathery, thick, and usually evergreen leaves
allosteric site	a site on the target, distinct from the active site, where binding events produce an effect on activity through a protein conformational change
meniscoidal	with one side concave the other convex, like a round segment from a hollow sphere.
endothermic	Referring to a chemical reaction that absorbs heat (i.e., has a positive change in enthalpy).
tachytelic	A relatively rapid evolutionary rate.
therapsids	An order of synapsid mammal-like reptiles, composed mainly of fairly large herbivorous and carnivorous forms, which were dominant reptilian stocks during the Permian and Triassic periods
maxime	very much or very large.
compass direction	North, south, east, west, or a combination of these; the direction of a movement or orientation as it could be described using a compass.
phagosome	A cellular inclusion formed by the engulfment of cells or tissue debris during phagocytosis.
cis dominance	Property of a sequence or a gene that exerts a dominant effect on a gene to which it is linked.
abdominal pain	Crampy abdominal pain that may be seen in amebic colitis; right upper quadrant pain in amebic abscess; severe duodenitis or jejunitis with Strongyloides organisms penetrating the mucosa; pain suggestive of gastric ulcer or appendicitis with anisakid larvae (penetration of gut wall).
paurometabolous	metamorphosis in which the changes of form are gradual and inconspicuous: e.g
lipases	Enzymes that catalyze the hydrolysis of triacylglycerols.
trifid	cleft into three parts or ends.
sensory receptor	A specialized structure that responds to specific stimuli from an animal's external or internal environment; transmits the information of an environmental stimulus to the animal's nervous system by converting stimulus energy to the electrochemical energy of action potentials.
entropy	A quantitative measure of disorder or randomness, symbolized by S.
actinomycete	Nontaxonomic term applied to a group of high G + C base composition, Gram-positive bacteria that have a superficial resemblance to fungi
mutagen	A chemical or physical agent that interacts with DNA and causes a mutation.
psychopathy	A condition characterized by the inability to connect to other people normally
reciprocal recombination	A precise exchange of genetic information like that expected for a simple cut, exchange, and rejoin mechanism
tempeh	an Oriental food made by fermenting soybeans with Rhizopus oligosporus.
concentration gradient	Technically, the difference in the concentration of a solute between two places divided by the distance separating those two places
cytology	The study of cellstheir structures, functions, components, and life histories.
theory of island biogeography	Predicts that larger, less isolated islands will contain more species than smaller, more isolated islands; that the number of species on any island reflects a balance between the rate at which new species colonize it and the rate at which populations of established species become extinct
ubiquitin	A small molecule that latches onto damaged or mutated proteins in the cell
regulatory gene	A gene that gives rise to a product involved in the regulation of the expression of another gene; for example, a gene coding for a repressor protein.
carcinogen	compound capable of causing cancer
srp	see signal-recognition particle
retrovirus	type of virus that contains RNA as its genetic information.
persistent	remaining constantly; always present.
rhizosphere	The region immediately adjacent to plant roots.
somatic cells	All body cells except the germ-line cells.
ostia	the slit-like openings of the heart.
non-functional dna	Segments of DNA with no known biological function or importance.
dentate-serrate	toothed, with the dentations themselves serrated on their edges.
lac	a mixture of resin, wax and other substances produced by certain scale insects as a protective covering.
respiratory quotient	The moles of CO2 produced by a cell expressed as a ratio of the moles of O2 simultaneously consumed
phosphogluconate pathway	Another name for the pentose phosphate pathway
gene repressor protein	A gene regulatory protein that prevents the initiation of transcription.
orbital	An orbital is the shape of the probability clouds that electrons are found in at a certain energy level or shell
monomer	One of the component units of a polymeric molecule.
polygenic character	A character whose variation is based wholly or in part on allelic variation at more than a few loci.
soluble protein	See globular protein.
clinical research	Research that involves administering drugs to patients in government-approved clinical trials.
herd immunity	Resistance of a group to a pathogen due to immunity of a large proportion of the group to that pathogen.
in situ	in its natural place or normal position.
adiscota	insects that develop into adults without forming imaginal discs; see discota.
extenuate	to make or to become weak, thin or slender.
pool therapy	A type of physiotherapy in which the individual does exercises while submerged in warm water
thermogenic tissue or process	In the context of thermal relations, a tissue or process that specifically increases production of heat when activated.
drug lead	Compound that has shown evidence of pharmacological activity on a drug target serving as a leading structure.
enzyme	A biological macromolecule that acts as a catalyst
bilayer	A double layer of oriented amphipathic lipid molecules, forming the basic structure of biological membranes
symbiosis	A long-term association of different species that provides mutual benefit.
ka	see affinity constant
absorption	Transport of the products of digestion from the intestinal tract into the blood.
retrotransposon	Type of transposable element in eukaryotic cells that possesses some characteristics of retroviruses and transposes through an RNA intermediate.
signal transduction	Relaying of a signal by conversion from one physical or chemical form to another
dha	Abbreviation for docosahexaenoic acid.
coral fungi	Hymenomycetes with highly branched, upright basidiomata, usually arising from the ground; some members of the family Clavariaceae (Aphyllophorales, Holobasidiomycetes).
hawk-dove game	This particular model pits a Hawk strategy (i.e., always try to injure your opponent and only withdraw from the contest if an injury is received) against a Dove strategy (i.e., always use a non-injurious display if the rival is another Dove and always withdraw if the rival is a Hawk).
agar	Complex polysaccharide derived from certain marine algae that is a gelling agent for solid or semisolid microbiological media
conduction	The direct transfer of thermal motion (heat) between molecules of objects in direct contact with each other.
dip	The angle that a bedding plane or fault makes with the horizontal when measured perpendicular to the strike of the bedding plane or fault.
sustainable development	The long-term prosperity of human societies and the ecosystems that support them.
polymorphic	Describing a protein for which amino acid sequence variants exist in a population of organisms, but the variations do not destroy the protein's function.
domain	A compact structural region within a protein with a distinct function.
activation energy	The amount of energy that reactants must absorb before a chemical reaction will start.
parabiosis	see symbiosis.
plc-β	see phospholipase C-β
nucleic acid	Any one of several polymers of nucleotides
catalytic converter	device installed in the exhaust stream of an engine to reduce emissions
piceous -eus	pitchy black.
ph	a number, usually between 0 and 14, that indicates the acidity of a solution
drug targeting	Drug targeting is a strategy aiming at the delivery of a compound to a particular tissue of the body.
vermian	worm-like.
glyoxylate cycle	A pathway that uses some of the enzymes of the TCA cycle and some enzymes whereby acetate can be converted into succinate and carbohydrates.
umbilicate	navel-shaped, or resembling a navel.
tnf	Tumor Necrosis Factor
aldehyde	Organic compound that contains the group
eutrophication	A process by which nutrients, particularly phosphorus and nitrogen, become highly concentrated in a body of water, leading to increased growth of organisms such as algae
dna footprinting	Technique used to determine which DNA sequences are bound by a protein.
centrifugate	sen-TRIF-yuh-guht/ A product of centrifugation.
euploid	Polyploid individual whose chromosome complement is comprised of a whole number of its basic chromosome set.
anticipation	A genetic phenomenon where a disease increases in severity in successive generations, and children can have a more severe form of a disease than their parents
action spectrum	A profile of the relative performance of different wavelengths of light.
zetta-	A prefix indicating 1021; a sextillion.
amoeboid	Having no definite shape to the cell, able to change shape.
plumate	like a feather.
ecology	The study of how organisms interact with their environment.
dopa	L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine.
organ	Collection of tissues which performs a particular function or set of functions in an animal or plant's body
cornute -us	having horns or horn-like processes.
sense strand	The strand of DNA that has the same nucleotide sequence as the mRNA (except the DNA has T where the RNA has U residues)
electroporation	A technique to introduce recombinant DNA into cells by applying a brief a electrical pulse to a solution containing cells
epimers	Two stereoisomers differing in configuration at one asymmetric center, in a compound having two or more asymmetric ceuters.
enzyme–substrate affinity	The proclivity of an enzyme to form a complex with its substrate when the enzyme and substrate meet.
caprification	is that method or process through which the Smyrna figs are fertilized by Blastophaga throughthe medium of wild, inedible or "caprifigs."
new chemical entity	A compound capable of being patented.
inducible enzyme	An enzyme (or other protein) that is expressed only when “induced” by the presence of a molecule or condition that serves as an inducing agent
adenovirus	A group of non-enveloped icosahedral viruses
dilution	The process of making something weaker or less concentrated.
negative feedback	A primary mechanism of homeostasis, whereby a change in a physiological variable that is being monitored triggers a response that counteracts the initial fluctuation.
tundra	A biome at the extreme limits of plant growth
nucleus	A membrane-enclosed structure containing the genetic material (DNA) organized in chromosomes.
osculum	The main opening through which filtered water is discharged
de-orphaning receptors	Determining the ligands that bind orphan receptors.
condensation reaction	A reaction in which two molecules become covalently bonded to each other through the loss of a small molecule, usually water; also called a dehydration reaction.
jubate -us	fringed with long pendent hairs.
sea-floor spreading	n
nod-like receptor	One of a family of proteins that serve as pattern recognition receptors, in that they sense microbial motifs in the cell cytoplasm.
phase i clinical trial	The first in a series of studies that test the safety and efficacy of a new drug or treatment in human participants
cell-free system	Fractionated cell homogenate that retains a particular biological function of the intact cell, and in which biochemical reactions and cell processes can be more easily studied.
calibration graph	graph made by carefully measuring the absorbencies of several solutions of known concentration for the species being analyzed
basilar	of or pertaining to the base.
half-life	The half-life of a substance is the amount of times it takes for half of the original molecule to be chemically degraded or eliminated in some other way (for example, in the urine)
adrenal medulla	The inner portion of the adrenal gland
krebs cycle	The cyclic series of reactions in the mitochondrion in which pyruvate is degraded to carbon dioxide and hydrogen protons and electrons
osmoregulator	An animal whose body fluids have a different osmolarity than the environment, and that must either discharge excess water if it lives in a hypotonic environment or take in water if it inhabits a hypertonic environment.
prominent	raised or produced beyond the level or margin: standing out in relief by color or otherwise: conspicuous.
atrophy	A decrease in the mass of a tissue or organ by the loss of cells or of intracellular components of cells
equilibrium	A state of balance in which there is no net change.
r group	Shorthand for the side chain of an amino acid.
trichotomous	divided by threes.
radio-carbon dating	Method for determining the age of an organic substance by measuring the amount of the carbon isotope, carbon-14, remaining in the substance; useful for determining ages in the range of 500 to 70,000 years.
crustaceans	A large
virulent	A term describing a pathogen against which a plant has little specific defense.
eluate	The fluid that has passed through (eluted from) a chromatographic column.
aerobiology	the study of fungal (and other) propagules in the atmosphere
digestion	Enzymatic hydrolysis of major nutrients in the gastrointestinal system to yield their simpler components.
myoblast	a cell that produces muscular tissue.
post-replication repair	A DNA repair process which occurs after DNA replication.
lineage	Any continuous line of descent; any series of organisms connected by reproduction by parent of offspring.
light-dependent reactions	The reactions of the first stage of photosynthesis, in which light energy is captured by chlorophyll molecules and converted to chemical energy stored in ATP and NADPH molecules.
pyrenolichens	lichens in which the mycobiont produces perithecial or pseudothecial ascomata.
lipid	Organic molecule that is insoluble in water but tends to dissolve in nonpolar organic solvents
metamerism	Division of the body, or a major portion of the body, into a series of similar segments along the anterior-posterior axis
resonant frequency	In any elastic system, the frequency at which the system oscillates when left alone following activation by a pulse of energy; the natural frequency
concurrent	See cocurrent.
clade	A monophyletic taxon; a group of organisms which includes the most recent common ancestor of all of its members and all of the descendants of that most recent common ancestor
nat	Nucleic Acid Test
membrane channel	Transmembrane protein complex that allows inorganic ions or other small molecules to diffuse passively across the lipid bilayer.
nad+	A widely used coenzyme that participates in oxidation reactions by accepting two electrons from a donor molecule and one H+ from the solution
myopathy	Any disorder or disease of muscle tissue or muscles.
5' end	The end of a nucleic acid that lacks a nucleotide bound at the 5' position of the terminal residue.
adenovirus	A DNA-virus that replicates in the nucleus in an extra-chromosomal form.
cr	Abbreviation for creatine.
polarimeter	An instrument for determining the rotation of polarization of light as the light passes through a solution containing an optically-active substance.
movement corridor	A series of small clumps or a narrow strip of quality habitat (usable by organisms) that connects otherwise isolated patches of quality habitat.
sa node	The pacemaker of the heart, located in the wall of the right atrium
exothermic reaction	A chemical reaction that releases heat (that is, for which ΔH is negative).
monophyletic clade	Descendants from a single ancestral line.
defloration	/dehf-lə-RAY-shən/ n
isomerases	Enzymes that catalyze the transformation of compounds into their positional isomers.
inverted repeats	Identical copies of a sequence of double-stranded DNA repeated in inverse order.
polymerase chain reaetion	A repetitive procedure that results in a geometric amplification of a specific DNA sequence.
wavelength	For light or sound, or other wave, the distance between one crest of the wave to the next crest
aqueous solution	a solution in which water is the solvent
hydrolysis	the chemical decomposition of a compound by water, causing formation of a new compound.
gap junction	A type of intercellular junction in animal cells that allows the passage of material or current between cells.
sheath of penis	in Odonata, a median, hood-like piece between the hamules, under which the penis is folded when not in use.
compound	pure substance made up of two or more elements in a fixed, characteristic chemical combination
hamule -us	furnished with hooks, or bent like a hook.
bijugum	in two pairs.
hypersensitivity	An immune reaction, usually harmful to the animal, caused either by antigen-antibody reactions or cellular immune processes
cyanobacteria	Photosynthetic prokaryotes possessing chlorophyll a but not chlorophyll b
coenzyme a	A pantothenic acidcontaining coenzyme serving as an acyl group carrier in certain enzymatic reactions.
feedback inhibition	Inhibition by an end product of the biosynthetic pathway involved in its synthesis.
catabolism	Cellular processes whereby complex molecules are degraded to simpler ones and energy is released
climate change	Changes in intensity and distribution of solar radiation reaching Earth.s surface.
punnett square	Diagrammatic representation of the union of gametes in all possible combinations.
lower water concentrations	region to which net movement of water molecules occurs during osmosis.
ante-apical	just before the apex.
translucid	clear: transparent enough to be seen through.
macromolecule	A molecule having a molecular weight in the range of a few thousand to many millions.
industrial melanism	The increase in frequency of dark (melanic) pigmentation in insects as an adaptation to remain inconspicuous on surfaces darkened by soot from air pollution.
bacterial artificial chromosome	An artificial version of a bacterial chromosome that can carry inserts of 100,000 to 500,000 base pairs.
inversion	Type of mutation in which a segment of chromosome is inverted.
energy	the capacity to do work or supply heat
clintheriform	shaped like a plate
bivalent	Refers to a synapsed pair of homologous chromosomes.
macrophage	A cell characterized by prominent lysosomes and the ability to phagocytose foreign material
hydrophilic	Interacting effectively with water
steady state kinetics	The analysis of an enzyme reaction during the interval when the concentration of intermediates is steady.
iris	the circle which, in an ocellate spot surrounds the pupil.
single-cell protein	Protein derived from microbial cells for use as food or a food supplement.
zygote intrafallopian transfer	An assisted reproductive technology in which an ovum fertilized in vitro is placed in a woman's uterine tube.
odds ratio	A measure of relative risk that is usually estimated from case-control studies. 
electrophoresis	A technique that separates dissolved particles subjected to an electrical field according to their mobility
speciation	The evolutionary processes by which new kinds of organisms evolve from preexisting kinds or evolve from currently existing kinds.
intrusion	n
ketosis	A condition in which the concentration of ketone bodies in the blood or urine is unusually high.
stipitate	supported on a stalk or pedicle.
septum	Partition which divides up a larger region into smaller ones, such as in the central body cavity of some anthozoa.
ames test	A genetic test for the identification of carcinogens based upon their mutagenic activity initially developed by Bruce Ames
integrative levels of organization	The idea that matter is arrayed in orders of increasing complexity, and that at each level, there are emergent properties such that the higher level cannot be reduced to the lower.
teleology	The belief that natural events and objects have purposes and can be explained by their purposes.
proton	Positively charged subatomic particle that forms part of an atomic nucleus
autolysis	Spontaneous lysis.
adaptive evolution	The adjustment of an organism to its environment, or the process by which it enhances such fitness.
epimerases	Enzymes that catalyze the reversible interconversion of two epimers.
chemotherapy	The treatment of cancer using specific chemicals or drugs that are selectively destructive to malignant (cancerous) cells and tissues.
transmission electron microscope	A microscope that passes an electron beam through very thin sections; primarily used to study the internal ultrastructure of cells.
antibiotic	Any of a group of substances which has the ability to kill or weaken bacteria.
maceration	A process, such as chewing, that physically breaks down food into pieces.
pdc kinases	A group of molecules that add a phosphate onto one of the enzymes in the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC), effectively turning the entire PDC off
high field nmr	A high-resolution NMR method based on higher field magnets that enables the analysis of large molecules.
dormancy	A period of suspended growth and metabolic activity
molecular imprinting	Process by which functinal monomers can self-assemble around a template molecule
catabolic	describes metabolic chemical reactions resulting in the breakdown of complex materials and the release of energy in the metabolic process (cf
evolutionary reversal	The evolution of a character from a derived state back toward a condition that resembles an earlier state.
buller drop	the tiny droplet of liquid which appears at the base of a basidiospore just before it is discharged.
autocatalysis	Reaction that is catalyzed by one of its products, creating a positive feedback (self-amplifying) effect on the reaction rate.
messenger rna	See mRNA.
plantae	One of the five recognized kingdoms
activation energy	The minimal amount of energy a molecule must gain to enter its transition state during a chemical reaction
electron acceptor	A substance that receives electrons in an oxidation-reduction reaction.
canine	KAY-nine/ (1) of, pertaining to, or like dogs; (2) a pointed tooth between the incisors and premolars; in mammalian predators the canines are usually elongated and function in seizing and piercing prey.
conflect	crowded; clustered; opposed to sparse.
kinase	A molecule that phosphorylates, or adds a phosphate group onto, other molecules in the cell in order to turn them on or off
signal sequence	A (usually N-terminal) sequence of a protein that directs its processing or localization within the cell.
striatal nerve cells	see striatal neurons.
electron carrier	A molecule that can accept electrons from and donate electrons to various enzymes.
genome	The complete genetic constitution of a cell or an individual.
biochemical pathway	A series of enzyme-catalyzed reactions that results in the conversion of a precursor molecule into a product molecule.
prochiral molecule	A symmetric molecule that can react asymmetrically with an enzyme having an asymmetric active site, generating a chiral product.
blade	(1) The broad, expanded part of a leaf
parsing	The use of algorithms to analyze data into components.
ubiquitin-proteasome system	A cellular quality control system that tags misfolded proteins for refolding or degradation.
epoch	One of the categories into which geological time is divided; a subdivision of a geological period
brackish	Water whose salt content (salinity) is intermediate between fresh water and sea water; usually at the mouths of rivers that empty into the ocean (estuaries).
resource partitioning	The division of environmental resources by coexisting species such that the niche of each species differs by one or more significant factors from the niches of all coexisting species.
epimerization	Reaction that alters the steric arrangement around one atom, as in a sugar molecule.
essential fatty acids	The group of polyunsaturated fatty acids produced by plants, but not by humans; required in the human diet.
specular	mirror-like: transparent.
ecdysis	the process of casting the skin; moulting.
autoantibodies	Antibodies that attack the body's own cells.
extrusive	Igneous
tetraploidy	Refers to the possession of four haploid sets of chromosomes (4n).
nicatinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate	An important electron and hydrogen ion acceptor involved in transporting electrons used in biosynthetic pathways, for instance in the Calvin Benson cycle of photosynthesis.
food calorimeter	apparatus used to measure the energy content of a food.
hydrophobic molecule	A nonpolar compound that does not form favorable binding interactions with water, and is insoluble in water.
protein phosphatase	see phosphoprotein phosphatase
enzyme induction*	Enzyme induction is the process whereby an (inducible) enzyme is synthesized in response to a specific inducer molecule
transposition	The movement of a gene or set of genes from one site in the genome to another.
horn	a pointed chitinous process of the head: in the plural form applied to the antennae; q.v.
carbon-nitrogen ratio	Ratio of the mass of organic carbon to the mass of nitrogen in soil or organic material.
hypothesis	A tentative explanation for an observation, phenomenon, or scientific problem that can be tested by further investigation.
plastic	Able to be shaped or changed.
testosterone	A sex steroid hormone, produced by the Leydig cells of the testes, that is essential for male secondary sexual characteristics and reproduction
desiccation	Drying
thoracotheca	= cytotheca: q.v.
earth stars	specialized soil-inhabiting puffballs (Lycoperdales: Gasteromycetes) in which the outer peridium splits and curls back in segments, raising the basidiospore mass (gleba) above the dead leaves, etc.
working range	the limits of a particular variable factor (e.g
models	There are many parallels between biological systems in many types of creatures, so this has led to the establishment of a number of "model organisms"
posttranslational modification	The enzyme-catalyzed change to a protein made after it is synthesized
response	a decrease in disease that occurs because of  treatment; divided into complete response(remission) or partial response(remission)
physiology	the study of the activities and processes of living organisms.
ribosylation	The addition of a ribosyl residue.
phage	See bacteriophage.
resectoscope	instrument inserted through the urethra and used by a urologist to cut out tissue (usually from the prostate) while the physician can actually see precisely where he is cutting
organelle	A subcellular membrane-bounded body with a well-defined function.
adsorption	Process by which atoms, molecules, or ions are taken up and retained on the surfaces of solids by chemical or physical binding.
detergent	Type of small amphipathic molecule that tends to coalesce in water, with its hydrophobic tails buried and its hydrophilic heads exposed
ceratheca or ceratotheca	that portion of the pupal shell that envelops the antenna.
system	A more complex organization formed from a combination of components.
chromosome	In eukaryotes, the structural unit of the genetic material consisting of a single, linear double-stranded DNA molecule and associated proteins
thermal cracking	heating of starting materials to a high temperature
nematid	thread-like.
nematocyst	Older name for a cnidocyst.
cucullus	a hood: see capillitium.
locus	The position on a 
performance test	Obtaining a phenotypic measure on an individual for the purpose of assessing its genetic merit.
acute	pointed: terminating in or forming less than a right angle.
ribonucleoside triphosphate	Substrate of RNA synthesis; consists of a ribose sugar, a nitrogenous base, and three phosphates linked to the 5'-carbon atom of the sugar
irreversible inhibitor	A synthetic molecule designed to bind the active site of an enzyme and form a covalent bond with the enzyme.
biosolid	The resides of wastewater treatment
institutional review board	An IRB is an independent ethics committee for an institution that serves to approve, monitor, and review biomedical and behavioral research involving humans with the aim to protect the rights and welfare of the subjects.
hypothalamus	Small structure at the base of the brain that regulates many body functions, including appetite and body temperature.
thrombocytes	See platelets.
coarse-grained environment	A heterogeneous environment in which individuals in a population are exposed to conditions different from other individuals.
diploid cells	A cell containing two sets of chromosomes (2n), one set inherited from each parent.
reverse transcriptase pcr	Method for making many copies of part of a RNA sequence.
redox reactions	A chemical reaction involving the transfer of one or more electrons from one reactant to another; also called oxidation-reduction reaction
protractor	that which extends or lengthens out: applied to muscles.
dalton	A unit of mass equivalent to the mass of a hydrogen atom (1.66 x 10-24 g)
pyruvate oxidation	The process in cellular metabolism where pyruvate is turned into acetyl-coA.
chromosomes	The DNA in every cell of every organism is divided into chromosomes
poriferous	closely set with deep pittings or punctures.
x-ray crystallography	A technique for determining the 3-D structure of a molecule, based on the diffraction of x-rays by the crystallized form of the molecule
carbohydrate	A polyhydroxy aldehyde or ketone.
meter	the standard of length in the metric system = 39.37 inches: see centimeter and millimeter.
pratinicolous	frequenting or living in grassy meadows or bogs.
copal	Brittle aromatic yellow to red resins of recent or fossil origin, obtained from tropical trees.
ß-lactam antibiotics	Antibiotics taht contain a ß-lactam ring and act by inhibiting peptidoglycan synthesis
expansion	A mutation involving the increase from one generation to the next (parent to child) in the number of copies of a certain codon
upland	n
hydrogen bond	A noncovalent bond between an electronegative atom (commonly oxygen or nitrogen) and a hydrogen atom covalently bonded to another electronegative atom
aerobe	An organism that is capable of using oxygen as a terminal electron acceptor, can tolerate a level of oxygen equivalent to or higher than that present in an air atmosphere (21% oxygen), and has a strictly respiratory type of metabolism
molecule	Group of atoms joined together by covalent bonds.
fused	run together: applied when two normally separated markings become confluent and have a common outline.
sex-limited characteristic	Encoded by autosomal genes and expressed in only one sex
defective phage	A phage that lacks one or more functions that are required for reproduction.
rosette	A series of whorls of leaves or leaf-like structure produced at the base of the stem, just above the ground.
activation energy	The amount of energy that must be added to the reactants(starting materials) in a chemical reaction in order for the chemical reaction to go to completion
tension	The force produced by cross-bridge action in a contracting muscle.
pathogen	A disease-causing agent.
diplogangliata	applied to the Arthropods.
colonial	Condition in which many unicellular organisms live together in a somewhat coordinated group
microfilaments	Monomers of the protein actin polymerize to form long, thin fibers about 8 nm in diameter
aerosol	A gaseous suspension of fine solid or liquid particles
ag	Silver, Antigen.
extremophile	An organism that grows optimally in extreme conditions, including extreme temperature, pressure, pH, ionic concentration, and pressure.
nomenclature	The system of naming things (e.g
lamella	a thin plate or leaf-like process.
temperate broadleaf forest	A biome located throughout midlatitude regions where there is sufficient moisture to support the growth of large, broadleaf deciduous trees.
pitch	A function of a sound wave's frequency, or number of vibrations per second, expressed in hertz.
linkage disequilibrium	Describes a condition in which certain alleles at two linked loci are nonrandomly associated with each other
biotherapy	Treatment with genetically engineered biological materials.
primary producer	An autotroph, which collectively make up the trophic level of an ecosystem that ultimately supports all other levels; usually a photosynthetic organism.
scala naturae	The .scale of nature,
elongation factor	A protein that facilitates protein synthesis.
redundancy model	The concept, put forth by Henry Gleason and Brian Walker, that most of the species in a community are not tightly coupled with one another (that is, the web of life is very loose)
side	the lateral margin of the body.
conformation	The precise shape of a protein or other macromolecule in three dimensions resulting from the spatial location of the atoms in the molecule
pretest counseling	Counseling offered to help individuals make informed decisions as to whether or not they should be genetically tested for HD
arenicolous	applied to species frequenting sandy areas.
praeocular	before the eyes.
non-coding rnas	An RNA molecule that is not translated into a protein.
xenobiotic	A synthetic chemical that affects living systems.
gill arches	Stiffenings which support the flesh between the gill slits of chordates
carbon cycle	Worldwide circulation and reutilization of carbon atoms, chiefly due to metabolic processes of living organisms
defined medium	A bacterial growth medium in which all the components are known
hormone	A substance produced and released by certain parts of the body that can travel through the bloodstream and exert significant effects on other parts of the body (such as growth or changes in metabolism) over extended periods of time.
non-equilibrium view	Whether a system really tend toward steady state at all and emphasizes that disturbance in time and space constantly interact to influence the ecology and evolutionary trajectories in the ecosystems
binus	paired: doubled.
circularly permuted dna	A population of linear DNA molecules produced as if by breaking open circular molecules at different points.
metalloprotein	A protein that includes one or more metal atoms in its structure.
ptilomotor	Related to the erection or compression of the feathers in the plumage of a bird under the control of muscles attached to the bases of the feathers.
akinete	Thick-walled resting cell of cyanobacteria and algae.
secondary succession	Species survive in the soil during large, low intensity disturbances, such as plowing in conventional agriculture, and can quickly recolonize areas after the disturbance.
first law of thermodynamics	Energy cannot be created or destroyed.
allometric equations	An equation to aid in the calculation of the change in proportion of various parts of an organism as a consequence of growth.
hydrophilic	Polar or charged; describing molecules or groups that associate with (dissolve easily in) water.
proton acceptor	An anionic compound capable of accepting a proton from a proton donor; that is, a base.
specificity	The ability of an enzyme or receptor to discriminate among competing substrates or ligands.
elasticity coefficient	The elasticity () describes the sensitivity of a reaction rate with respect to a given reactant, product or effector
autonomous element	Transposable element that is fully functional and able to transpose on its own
selectively permeable membrane	structure that allows small molecules (e.g
gasteromycetes	Holobasidiomycetes with basidioma closed at basidiospore maturity, hymenium present or absent, spore-shooting mechanism lost: basidiospores passively dispersed by a variety of interesting methods; a heterogeneous group.
limiting nutrient	An element that must be added for production to increase in a particular area.
spongin	proteinacous compound of which the spicules in Demospongiae are composed.
heliophobic	loving darkness: applied to species that shun the light, like, e.g
desiccation	The process of drying out
barrier island	n
chromatin	The nucleoprotein fibers of eukaryotic chromosomes.
plutonic	Applies to igneous rocks formed beneath the surface of the Earth; typically with large crystals due to the slowness of cooling
tachycardia	A heart rate that is unusually high.
sporopollenin	A duarable polymer that covers exposed zygotes of charophycean algae and forms walls of plant spores, preventing them from drying out.
polysaccharide	Linear or branched polymer of monosaccharides, linked by glycosidic bonds, usually containing more than 15 residues
aerobic	Able to grow in the presence of atmospheric oxygen.
amphibia	The vertebrate class of amphibians, represented by frogs, salamanders, and caecilians.
admet	absorption, distribution, metabolism, elimination, toxicology
semilunar valve	A valve located at the two exits of the heart, where the aorta leaves the left ventricle and the pulmonary artery leaves the right ventricle.
incompatibility group	A number of different types of plasmid, often related to each other, that are unable to stably coexist in the same cell.
maximum contaminant level	legal limit for the concentration of a contaminant
recombination	Processes in prokaryotes and eukaryotes that serve to produce new combinations of genetic material already existing in individuals
steady state	In enzyme-kinetic analysis, the time interval when the rate of reaction is approximately constant with time
pacemaker	A specialized region of the right atrium of the mammalian heart that sets the rate of contraction; also called the sinoatrial (SA) node
biolistics	A means of introducing DNA into cells that involves bombardment with high-velocity microprojectiles coated with DNA.
tracheae	Internal tubes through which air is taken for respiration
triple bond	covalent linkage made up of three pairs of shared electrons
rima	a crack or longitudinal opening with sharp edges.
tubercle	Any small rounded protrusion
fitness	The genetic contribution of an individual to succeeding generations relative to the contributions of other individuals in the population.
pulleywheel occlusion	the structure blocking the septal pore in hyphae of the rust fungi (Uredinales).
oxygen debt	In muscle, the cumulative deficit of oxygen that develops during strenuous exercise when the supply of oxygen is inadequate for the demand; ATP is produced anaerobically by glycolysis, and the resulting pyruvic acid is converted to lactic acid, which is subsequently metabolized when adequate oxygen is available.
blotting	Biochemical technique in which macromolecules separated on an agarose or polyacrylamide gel are transferred to a nylon membrane or sheet of paper, thereby immobilizing them for further analysis
chagrined	see shagreened.
topoisomer	Macromolecular isomers that differ in topology.
nanomedicine	the union of nanoscale technology and medical treatment
directed molecular evolution	A protein engineering technique that uses genetic algorithms to evolve molecules with new functions.
ecotone	The transition from one type of habitat or ecosystem to another, such as the transition from a forest to a grassland.
gram-negative	Describing the group of bacteria with a cell wall that is structurally more complex and contains less peptidoglycan than that of gram-positive bacteria
ar	Abbreviation for androgen receptor.
joule	Standard unit of energy in the meter-kilogram system
regulatory site	Site on an enzyme, other than the active site, that binds a molecule that affects enzyme activity.
nitrogen saturation	process by which an area is overloaded with "nitrogen"; that is, when the reactive forms of nitrogen entering an ecosystem exceed the system's capacity to absorb the nitrogen
adenosine triphosphate	An organic compound commonly involved in the transfer of phosphate bond energy, composed of adenosine (an adenine base + a D-ribose sugar) and three phosphate groups.
organic	adj
mimicry	The tendency of two species to closely resemble each other because such resemblance confers an advantage with respect to predators of the species
oviparous	Females that lay eggs that develop outside the body.
k-selection	A form of selection that occurs in an environment at or near carrying capacity, favoring a reproductive strategy in which few offspring are produced.
carpals	The bones that make up the wrist joint
investitus	unclothed: a surface without scales or hair.
homeostasis	The maintenance of a dynamic steady state by regulatory mechanisms that compensate for changes in external circumstances.
triacylglycerol	Molecule composed of three fatty acids esterified to glycerol
ribosome	A large complex comprising several different rRNA molecules and more than 50 proteins, organized into a large subunit and small subunit; the site of protein synthesis
baenopoda	the thoracic legs.
fluorescent	Having the ability to emit light of a certain wavelength when activated by light of another wavelength.
asymmetry	a state of unlikeness in lateral development; absence of symmetry in form or in the development of members.
exotoky	is applied to that form of reproduction where the eggs are developed outside of the body of the insect and without care by the mother see endotoky.
multipolar	describes yeasts in which each successive blastic conidium arises from a different point on the mother cell.
free-energy change	The amount of free energy released (negative ΔG) or absorbed (positive ΔG) in a reaction at constant temperature and pressure.
bottom up control	Control of a population by available nutrients or food.
pleated sheet	The side-by-side, hydrogen-bonded arrangement of polypeptide chains in the extended β conformation.
caspase	A type of protein that is involved in apoptosis
photosynthesis	The biosynthesis that directly harnesses the chemical energy resulting from the absorption of light
molar mass	mass of one Avogadro's number, or "mole," of whatever particles are specified
macromolecule	Any large, usually polymeric molecule (e.g., a protein, nucleic acid, polysaccharide) with a molecular mass greater than a few thousand daltons.
polymorphonuclear granulocytes	A collective name for neutrophils, basophils, and eosinophils.
restriction endonucleases	Site-specific endodeoxyribonucleases causing cleavage of both strands of DNA at points within or near the specific site recognized by the enzyme; important tools in genetic engineering.
trigoneutism	where three broods occur in one season.
a	Acid.
free radicals	reactive oxygen and reactive nitrogen species) exceed the ability of antioxidant systems to neutralize them.
adipocyte	A fat cell.
emarginate	notched: with an obtuse, rounded or quadrate section cut from a margin.
kinetic energy	Energy of motion.
dentin	The hard inner layer of a tooth that surrounds the tooth pulp
rugose -ous	wrinkled: with irregular waved elevated lines.
hormone	A chemical substance, released by nonneural endocrine cells or by neurons, that is carried in the blood to distant target cells, where it exerts regulatory influences on their function
coenzyme	Small molecule tightly associated with an enzyme that participates in the reaction that the enzyme catalyzes, often by forming a covalent bond to the substrate
bottleneck	A severe, temporary reduction in population size.
combinatorial synthesis	Combinatorial synthesis is a process to prepare large sets of organic compounds by combining sets of building blocks.
dichromatism	the possession of two color varieties.
vectors	Influenza viruses are spread by coughing and sneezing
clone	(i) Population of cells all descended from a single cell
cyst	Resting stage formed by some bacteria, nematodes, and protozoa in which the whole cell is surrounded by a protective layer; not the same as endospore.
human genome project	An international collaborative effort to map and sequence the DNA of the entire human genome.
evolution	Darwin's definition: descent with modification
tropic hormone	A peptide hormone that stimulates a specific target gland to secrete its hormone; for example, thyrotropin produced by the pituitary stimulates secretion of thyroxine by the thyroid.
additive genetic variance-covariance matrix	A square matrix with additive genetic variances for the traits on the diagonal and additive genetic covariances on the off-diagonal.
allostery	The word allosteric is derived from the Greek {\em allos} and {\em stereos{, means other-solid
ribosome	Cellular structure composed of RNA and protein that is responsible for protein synthesis.
recombineering	A term coined by Don Court to describe a method for vector construction based on homologous recombination in E
inorganic pyrophosphatase	An enzyme that hydrolyzes a molecule of inorganic pyrophosphate to yield two molecules of (ortho) phosphate; also known as pyrophosphatase.
nanotechnology	A miniaturization technology based on the development of nanometer-scale machines to operate in molecular environments.
platyspermic	Having seeds which are flattened and disc-like
rasorial	formed for scratching; applied to leg structures.
genetic code	The "code" in which information for the synthesis of proteins is contained in the nucleotide seuqence of a DNA molecule (or in certain viruses, of an RNA molecule).
nuclear magnetic resonance	see NMR
gene sequencing	Determining the complete sequence of a molecule or molecules of DNA, often through highly automated procedures.
macrophage-colony stimulating factor	A growth factor that stimulates macrophage colonies.
leptiform	= compodeiform; q.v.
platelet	A noncellular disc-shaped structure containing protoplasm found in large numbers in blood and functioning in the blood clotting process.
biomaterial	Biologically derived material that is utilized as a structural component.
duct	a channel, tube or canal for carrying a secretion from a gland to the point of discharge.
proteins	as opposed to steroid hormones, which are made from cholesterol
quantal	Describes a biological system capable of only two responses.
chemical equilibrium	The state of a chemical reaction in which the concentration of all products and reactants is constant and the rates of the forward and reverse reactions are equal.
rrs1	Regulator of ribosome synthesis; a gene that directs the production of ribosomes that, in turn, direct the synthesis of nuclear proteins (proteins found in the nucleus of the cell).
chi site	An 8-nucleotide DNA sequence (5' GCTGGTGG 3') which is a hot-spot for homologous recombination
thermotolerant	capable of growing at high temperatures (up to 60C, opt
m-cdk	see M-phase Cdk
gregarious	living in societies or communities; but not social.
dhap	Dihydroxyacetone phosphate.
unilamellar	Consisting of one layer, often used in reference to lipid monolayer structures.
diaphanous	semi-transparent; clear.
applique	Early ring form of Plasmodium falciparum found at the margin of red blood cells; accole.
half-reaction	type of chemical equation that shows the electrons either lost or gained
compound	A substance formed by two or more
inorganic	adj
genetic complementation	The restoration of function by the introduction of exogenous DNA.
sill	n
krebs cycle	see citric acid cycle
reducing equivalent	Electrons stored in reduced electron carriers such as NADH, NADPH and FADH2.
micrometer	a millionth (10-6) of a meter
carboxylic acid	A molecule containing a carbon atom attached to a hydroxyl group and to an oxygen atom by a double bond.
allopatric	Species or populations whose geographical distributions do not contact each other.
replicon	A genetic element that behaves as an autonomous replicating unit
electrochemical gradient	The diffusion gradient of an ion, representing a type of potential energy that accounts for both the concentration difference of the ion across a membrane and its tendency to move relative to the membrane potential.
uphill transport	See active transport.
complex disease	A pathological condition of the body that is the result of defects in a number of genetic and environmental factors
thigmotropism	A directional growth of a plant in response to touch.
wilting	The drooping of leaves and stems as a result of plant cells becoming flaccid.
proteasome	An enzyme that destroys abnormal proteins (which are flagged by ubiquitin).
lungs	The invaginated respiratory surfaces of terrestrial vertebrates, land snails, and spiders that connect to the atmosphere by narrow tubes.
food infection	Microbial infection resulting from ingestion of contaminated food.
trichroism	the condition when any given part exhibits three different colors in different individuals of the same species: e.g
accessory pigments	Visible lightabsorbing pigments (carotenoids, xanthophyll, and phycobilins) in plants and photosynthetic bacteria that complement chlorophylls in trapping energy from sunlight.
stridulate	to make a creaking noise by rubbing together two ridged or roughened surfaces.
limnetic zone	In a lake, the well-lit, open surface waters farther from shore.
mole	X grams of a substance, where X is its relative molecular mass (molecular weight)
black smoker	Thermal vent emitting very hot (270-380 °C) water and minerals.
gonococcus	Neisseria gonorrhoeae, the gram-negative diplococcus that causes the disease gonorrhea.
gene splicing	The enzymatic attachment of one gene, or part of a gene, to another.
small ribosomal subunit	The smaller of the two subunits of a functional ribosome.
chemostat	Device for maintaining a bacterial population in the exponential growth phase by controlling nutrient input and cell removal.
primary succession	The loss of the entire soil complex due to large, extreme disturbances such as volcanic eruptions or glaciers that Â result in very slow succession due to complete mortality of all living individuals in the system.
diurnae	day fliers: applied to butterflies.
amino acid	One of the building blocks of proteins; there are 20 common amino acids.
plasticity	The ability to develop or adapt in response to the environment.
kame	n
sun compass	A mechanism by which an animal can use the sun’s position and an internal clock to determine compass direction in navigation.
cortisol	The primary glucocorticoidhormone
microsequenator	A device for sequencing small amounts of sample.
uncinnate	hooked at the end.
phytochemical	A biologically active molecule derived from herbs, vegetables, fruits, flowers, etc.
colon	See large intestine.
deflexed	abruptly bent downward.
larvarium	a tube or case made by a larva as a shelter or retreat.
heterochrony	Evolutionary change in the timing or rate of an organism's development.
reactant	starting material that is transformed into a product during a chemical reaction
t-dna	The segment of the Agrobacterium Ti plasmid which is transferred to plant cells.
inclinate -us	leaning or inclining.
exogenous	Originating outside a cell, tissue, or organism.
development	Succession of changes that take place in an organism as a fertilized egg gives rise to an adult plant or animal.
amniocentesis	A technique of prenatal diagnosis in which amniotic fluid, obtained by aspiration from a needle inserted into the uterus, is analyzed to detect certain genetic and congenital defects in the fetus.
hypotonic	In comparing two solutions, the one with a lower solute concentration.
coordinate gene expression	Transcription of a group of genes at the same time due to a common regulatory mechanism.
second law of thermodynamics	The second law of thermodynamics comes in many forms but essentially expresses the observation that over time both matter and energy tend to disperse
instinct	An instinct is a simple or complex set of behaviors that are innate rather than learned.
clone	A cell, group of cells, or organism that is descended from and genetically identical to a single common ancestor.
zge	A Chinese Ginkgo biloba extract.
cenote	n
delayed fluorescence immunoassay	(DELFIA) A fluorescence technique based on the use of a molecule with a long fluorescence half-life.
marsupials	A group of mammals with young that leave the mother’s uterus at a very early stage and finish their development in a pouch
antigen	A substance that interacts with an antibody.
free energy	Energy available to do useful work.
epicranium	the upper part of the head from the front to the neck: often used to include front, vertex and genae:= calva.
myoclonic seizure	A seizure characterized by myoclonus (sudden, brief muscle contractions).
ccc	An abbreviation for "circular, covalently closed" DNA molecules.
expiratory	relating to the act of expiration, when the abdomen is contracted and the air contained in the abdominal tracheae is presumably forced out of them.
revegetation	The establishment of vegetation on sites where it has been previously lost, often with erosion control as the primary goal
prevalence	The proportion of individuals in a population having a disease.
peptide mapping	The characteristic two-dimensional pattern (on paper or gel) formed by the separation of a mixture of peptides resulting from partial hydrolysis of a protein; also known as peptide fingerprinting.
dna cloning	The propagation of individual segments of DNA as clones.
n-cam	see neural cell adhesion molecule
dilution quenching	The reduction of the luminescence of a sample by dilution.
founder effect	The effect caused by a sampling accident in which only a few "founders" derived from a large population begin a new colony
electronegativity	the attraction of an atom for the electrons of a covalent bond
seizure	A convulsion caused by electrical activity in the brain
discolored -orous	a different color from the surrounding, more or less contrasting; not concolorous.
fossiliferous	adj
photochemical reaction center	The part of a photosynthetic complex where the energy of an absorbed photon causes charge separation, initiating electron transfer.
adenosine triphosphate	A nucleotide that releases energy upon hydrolysis of the phosphate bonds
allele	One of the different versions of a gene
chloroplast	An organelle found only in plants and photosynthetic protists that absorbs sunlight and uses it to drive the synthesis of organic compounds from carbon dioxide and water.
active molecule	Some molecules must be chemically changed in the body to act on their targets
catalysis	Increase in rate of a chemical reaction.
white blood cell	A blood cell that functions in defending the body against infections and cancer cells; also called a leukocyte.
filtration	The extraction of water and small solutes, including metabolic wastes, from the body fluid into the excretory system
regression equation	Equation using regression to predict the value of a dependent variable from a known value of the independent variable.
hydrocarbon	An organic compound consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen.
porphin	A cyclic tetrapyrrole in which the four pyrrole groups are linked by their alpha-carbon atoms via methene (-CH=) bridges; porphin is the partial compund of porphyrins.
tb	Tuberculosis
protein aggregate	A misfolded, rigid protein grouping
radiated	marked with lines proceeding from a common centre.
collenchyma cell	A flexible plant cell type that occurs in strands or cylinders that support young parts of the plant without restraining growth.
amino group	Weakly basic functional group derived from ammonia (NH3) in which one or more hydrogen atoms are replaced by another atom
muscarine	toxic quaternary ammonium compound found in species of Clitocybe and Inocybe; causes perspiration-salivation-lacrymation syndrome.
paxilla	a small stake or peg: a bundle of spicular processes.
golgi body	A membranous organelle consisting of flattened sacs that serves as a way station and packaging site for materials synthesized by eukaryotic cells.
pendent	hanging down.
absorption	The taking in of water and dissolved minerals and nutrients across cell membranes
γ-tubulin ring complex	Protein complex containing γ-tubulin and other proteins that is an efficient nucleator of microtubules.
relaxed form	A quaternary protein structure that has higher affinity for a ligand than the taut form.
nicotine adenine dinucleotide	see NAD+
alizarine	a transparent, orange red [alizar crimson].
oxidoreductase	A class of enzymes that catalyse oxidoreduction reactions which transfer electrons from a hydrogen donor to a hydrogen acceptor.
matter	Anything that takes up space and has mass
bacteriochlorophyll	The light-absorbing pigment found in green sulfur and purple sulfur bacteria.
ponderable	that which may be weighed.
cell cycle	Ordered sequence of events in which a cell duplicates its chromosomes and divides into two
ripicolous	dwelling on river banks: riparian.
rna replication	Process in some viruses by which RNA is synthesized from an RNA template.
cross-walls	SEPTA (q.v.)
phytanyl	A branched-chain hydrocarbon containing 20 carbon atoms, commonly found in the lipids of Archaea.
penitrem a	a mycotoxin produced by various Penicillium spp., incl
ki	the affinity of the inhibitor for free enzyme.
facultative cells	Cells that can live in the presence or absence of oxygen.
lectins	Agglutinating proteins usually extracted from plants.
cladistics	The analysis of how species may be grouped into clades.
heterozygote	Individual having unlike alleles at a locus
sulfate-reudcing bacterium	A prokaryote which is able to reduce sulfate SO42- (as a terminal electron acceptor) using electrons donated from organic acids, fatty acids, alcohols or hydrogen (electron donors).
strigulated	with numerous strigulae.
dimer	Two reversibly associated macromolecular structures; two covalently associated molecules.
secondary antibody	An antibody that recognizes and binds a primary antibody
institutional review board	A specially constituted review body established or designated by an entity to protect the welfare of human subjects recruited to participate in biomedical or behavioral research.
avirulent	Microorganism with limited pathogenic potential.
hydrophilic	A compound (for example, charged molecule) or part of a compound (for example, polar group) that has an affinity for water molecules.
anorexia	Absence of appetite.
glucose	simple sugar, and the primary product of photosynthesis
secondary metabolism	Pathways that lead to specialized products not found in every living cell.
methylotroph	An organism capable of oxidizing organic compounds which do not contain carbon-carbon bonds; if able to oxidize methane, also a methanotroph.
cation	positively charged ion
primary structure	In proteins, the linear arrangement (sequence) of amino acids and the location of covalent (mostly disulfide) bonds within a polypeptide chain.
dry lab	Refers to experiments not performed at the lab bench.
orphan drug	A drug that treats a rare disease.
bionucleonics	The study of the application of isotopes to living systems.
aromatic	Organic compounds which contain a benzene ring, or a ring with similar chemical characteristics.
activation energy	Energy required to make substrate molec ules active enough for an reaction to occur
cytolytic	sigh-toe-LIT-ick/ Causing cytolysis.
bone	A type of connective tissue, consisting of living cells held in a rigid matrix of collagen fibers embedded in calcium salts.
post-subterminal	following the s
inhibitory	Resulting in a decrease in activity or probability of activity
outcrop	n
dimethylformamide	/DIE-meth-əl-FORM-ə-mide/ A common solvent; a colorless liquid, miscible with water and most organic liquids.
simple diffusion	Transport of solutes, water, gases, or other materials that arises from the molecular agitation that exists in all systems above absolute zero and from the simple statistical tendency for such agitation to carry more molecules out of regions of relatively high concentration than into such regions.
replication fork	The region on a replicating doublestranded DNA molecule where synthesis of new DNA is taking place
chromogenic substrate	A substrate that changes color when modified by a specific enzyme.
preformationism	The concept that an organism is preformed at conception in the form of a miniature adult and development consists of enlargement of the already preformed structures.
determinate growth	A type of growth characteristic of animals, in which the organism stops growing after it reaches a certain size.
autopolyploid	An individual that has more than two chromosome sets, all derived from a single species.
hypertension	Chronically high blood pressure within the arteries.
neutral equilibrium	An equilibrium in which a perturbed system attains a new state of equilibrium instead of returning to its original equilibrium state.
chanterelle	edible species of Cantharellus (Aphyllophorales: Holobasidiomycetes).
local mediator	Secreted signal molecule that acts at short range on adjacent cells.
outer nuclear membrane	The outermost of the two nuclear membranes
oxidative phosphorylation	Process in bacteria and mitochondria in which ATP formation is driven by the transfer of electrons from food molecules to molecular oxygen
replication	The synthesis of new deoxypolynucleotide strands.
nonredundant database	A database in which redundant entries have been noted and merged.
messenger rna	An RNA molecule transcribed from DNA which contains the information to direct the synthesis of a particular protein.
lps	Lipopolysaccharide
parasite	n
fischer projection formulas	See projection formulas.
embryo	Plant or animal at an early stage of development.
kidney-shaped	like a kidney in outline; convex on one long side, concave on the other, the ends evenly and somewhat obtusely rounded: bean-shaped.
purine	A nitrogenous heterocyclic base found in nucleotides and nucleic acids; containing fused pyrimidine and imidazole rings.
phosphodiester	Molecule containing R.O.P.O.R, in which R is a carbon-containing group, O is oxygen, and P is phosphorus.
carcinogen	Any agent, such as a chemical or a form of radiation, that causes cancer.
ecosystem	All the organisms in a particular region and the environment in which they live
scaffold	The molecular core common to all members of a combinatorial library; also proteins that are instrumental in the assembly of large 3-D structures.
mass number	sum of the number of protons and neutrons in the nucleus of an atom
interleukin	Secreted peptide or protein that mainly mediates local interactions between white blood cells (leucocytes) during inflammation and immune responses.
albinism	that condition in which there is an absence of color or a whitening in a form usually colored.
asthma	A chronic inflammatory lung disorder characterized by obstruction of airways.
centrifuge	SEN-truh-fyooj/ A machine used to separate the constituents of liquid mixtures by spinning them at high speeds.
hagfish	Scavengers, surround food item in a mucous bag.Many eelskin products are made from hagfish skin.
predation	The killing and consumption of one living organism (prey) by another (predator).
coenzyme	An organic cofactor required for the action of certain enzymes; often contains a vitamin as a component.
hard drug	A hard drug is a nonmetabolizable compound, characterized either by high lipid solubility and accumulation in adipose tissues and organelles, or by high water solubility.
dhhs	Department of Health and Human Services
m13	A single-stranded bacteriophage vector that is used in the Sanger dideoxy sequencing method.
primer walking	Sequencing method in which the sequence data of the sequenced section are exploited to synthesize the following primer
in vitro	(to be defined later)
complement	A complex of proteins in the blood serum that interacts sequentially with specific antibody in certain kinds of antigen-antibody reactions.
genetic isolation	The absence of genetic exchange between populations or species as a result of geographic separation or of premating or postmating mechanisms (behavioral, anatomical, or physiological) that prevent reproduction.
dendrites	n
klenow fragment	The large fragment of E
physiology	The study of function; the study of “how organisms work.”
complementary	Two polynucleotide chains that can base-pair to form a double-stranded molecule.
heteroduplex	A double-stranded DNA in which one strand is from one source and the other strand from another, usually different but related, source.
luciferase	enzyme which activates luciferin to produce bioluminescence.
monocistronic	An mRNA that only encodes a single gene product.
urea cycle	A metabolic pathway in vertebrates, for the synthesis of urea from amino groups and carbon dioxide; occurs in the liver.
endoparasite	Parasite that lives inside the body of its host.
character	Heritable trait possessed by an organism; characters are usually described in terms of their states, for example: "hair present" vs
free-energy change	The difference in the free energy of the product molecules and of the starting molecules (reactants) in a chemical reaction
promoter	See promoter region.
ribosomal rna	Forms complexes with ribosomal proteins to form ribosomes.
peptide bond	The actual link between two amino acids
tumor progression	The process by which an initial mildly disordered cell behavior gradually evolves into a full-blown cancer.
slaframine	a mycotoxin produced by Rhizoctonia leguminicola; causing excessive salivation or slobbering in ruminants feeding on certain fungus infected legume forage crops.
carcinogen	A substance that causes cancer.
cd28	Cell-surface protein on T cells that binds the co-stimulatory B7 protein on “professional” antigen-presenting cells, providing an additional signal required for the activation of a naïve T cell by antigen.
monoprotic acid	An acid having only one dissociable proton.
recurrent	running backward: applied to nerves it = stomatogastric.
nomograph	A graph that allows a third variable to be measured when the values of two related variables are known.
combinatorial chemistry	A robotic system methodically synthesising large numbers of compounds, each having a composition slightly different from the previous one.
environment	Composite of all non-genetic factors influencing the phenotypic expression of a trait.
hypognathous	having the mouth parts directed more or less vertically ventrad.
heat shock protein	A protein synthesized in response to cellular stress, including high temperature
inner membrane	The innermost of two membranes surrounding an organelle
dna fingerpriting	Use of the techniques of genetic engineering to determine the origin of dDNA in a sample of tissue.
troposphere	The first layer of Earth's atmosphere; it contains approximately 75% of the atmosphere's mass and 99% of its water vapor.
lipoic acid	A coenzyme that aids in energy production in the mitochondria
cis and trans isomers	See geometric isomers.
micrograph	Photograph of an image seen through a microscope
self-incompatibility	In plants, the rejection of their own pollen; promotes genetic variation and limits inbreeding.
complementary base sequence	For a given sequence of nucleic acids, the nucleic acids that are related to them by the rules of base pairing.
cooperativity	Phenomenon in which the binding of one ligand molecule to a target molecule promotes the binding of successive ligand molecules
drug latentiation	Drug latentiation is the chemical modification of a biologically active compound to form a new compound, which in vivo will liberate the parent compound
cytidine	SIGHT-uh-deen/ Cytosine attached to a ribose ring.
acid precipitation	Rain, snow, or fog that is more acidic than pH 5.6.
photodynamic therapy	A treatment based on the uptake by target cells of photoactivatable molecules that destroy the cells upon exposure to a specific light source.
phosphoinositides	A family of membrane-bound lipids containing phosphorylated inositol derivatives that are important in signal-transduction pathways in eukaryotic cells
cell cycle arrest	The halt of the cell cycle.
aqueous solution	solution in which water is the solvent
leaflet	In a compound leaf, the individual blades are called leaflets.
genetic fingerprinting	A method of identification exploiting differences in the number of repetitions of certain DNA sequences between individuals
anamorph	A somatic or reproductive structure without nuclear recombination in the asexual cycle.
suppression	The restoration (or partial restoration) of a wild-type phenotype by a second mutation
fibrilla	rod or sliver-like nerve elements, often grouped like a bundle of short threads.
toxic soluble oligomers	Small, harmful molecules believed to trigger cell damage in HD and related diseases.
peroxisome	A microbody containing enzymes that transfer hydrogen from various substrates to oxygen, producing and then degrading hydrogen peroxide.
tca cycle	see citric acid cycle
linearity	A relationship between two variables that is best described by a straight line
metalloprotein	A protein having a metal ion as its prosthetic group.
pulmonary	Related to the lungs.
active site	The region of an enzyme where substrate(s) bind(s) prior to the reaction occurs.
plasticizer	compound added in small amounts to polymers to make them softer and more pliable
associative dinitrogen fixation	Close interaction between a free-living diazotrophic organism and a higher plant that results in an enhanced rate of dinitrogen fixation.
absorption coefficient	The dissolved concentration of a gas when the partial pressure of that gas in solution is 1 atm
microscope	scientific instrument used to view tiny objects such as cells.
nonessential amino acid	An amino acid that may be synthesized by a cell or organism from simple chemical precursors
exa-	A prefix indicating 1018; a quintillion.
microstructure	n
retention	difficulty in initiation of urination or the inability to completely empty the bladder
staling	accumulation of metabolites which slow or stop growth of the organism which produces them.
histocompatibility	The ability of a host to tolerate a tissue graft.
pentose phosphate pathway	A pathway that serves to interconvert hexoses and pentoses and is a source of reducing equivalents and pentoses for biosynthetic processes; present in most organisms
dextrorotatory	/decks-troh-ROTE-tə-tore-ee/ adj
dementia	A progressive decline in mental function.
protein linkage map	A protein-protein interaction network map.
replisome	A large multi-protein complex that performs DNA replication.
rhodopsin	A visual pigment consisting of retinal and opsin
multifactorial disease	Polygenic disease, i.e
in vivo	In the body, in a living organism, as opposed to in vitro; when a study or an experiment is done in the living organism, it is said this is done in vivo.
analog	A molecule that is structurally and functionally related to another molecule.
ubiquitin ligase	Any one of a large number of enzymes that attach ubiquitin to a protein, thus marking it for destruction in a proteasome
competition exclusion principles	Principle stating that no two species competing for the same resource can coexist indefinitely.
antepenultimate	the last but two.
phytoscopic	characters of light or conditions of illumination that affect colors of caterpillars
biotic	Pertaining to the living organisms in the environment.
ultrasonography	Procedure for visualizing a fetus
sedimentary rock	Rock formed by the hardening of accumulated particles (sediments) that had been transported by agents such as wind and water
ontology	The creation of a systematically ordered data structure that enhances exchange of information between computers and scientists
net productivity	In a trophic level, a community, or an ecosystem, the amount of energy (in calories) stored in chemical compounds or the increase in biomass (in grams or metric tons) in a particular period of time; it is the difference between gross productivity and the energy used by the organisms in respiration.
genetic drift	The loss of genes(alleles) from a population do to chance effects, specifically “sampling error” in small populations
denaturation	Irreversible destruction of a macromolecule, as for example the destruction of a protein by heat.
phosphodiester	A molecule containing two alcohols esterified to a single molecule of phosphate
ga	See geldanamycin.
akathisia	A drug-induced side effect often caused by antipsychotic drugs
cryoelectron microscopy	Electron microscopy technique in which the objects to be viewed, such as macromolecules and viruses, are rapidly frozen.
mating-type locus	In budding yeast, the locus that determines the mating type (α or a) of the haploid yeast cell.
tau pathologies	neurodegenerative diseases related to problems with the tau protein found in nerve cells
hydrophilic	A property meaning "water loving," describing molecules that are attracted to water.
lirellate	long and thin, as in the ascomata of some lichens.
winogradsky column	A glass column with an anaerobic lower zone and an aerobic upper zone, which allows growth of microorgansims under conditions similar to those found in a nutrient-rich lake.
electromagnetic spectrum	The entire spectrum of radiation; ranges in wavelength from less than a nanometer to more than a kilometer.
smooth muscle cell	Type of long, spindle-shaped mononucleate muscle cell making up the muscular tissue found in the walls of arteries and of the intestine and other viscera, and in some other locations of the vertebrate body
luteous -eus	clay yellow [pale clay yellow].
quencher	A substance that deactivates excited molecules by processes such as resonance energy transfer (see FRET), electron transfer, or complex formation
tertiary structure	In proteins, overall three-dimensional form of a polypeptide chain, which is stabilized by multiple noncovalent interactions between side chains.
pioneer species	Species that colonize early in a vegetational succession; pioneer species possess characteristics like rapid growth, the production of copious, small, easily dispersed seed, and the ability to germinate and establish themselves on open sites.
area effect	The larger a place is, the more species it can support.
embryo	The earliest stage of development in an animal or plant
neuroprotection	A process that involves protecting the nerve cells from deterioration due to neurodegenerative disease.
concentric muscle contraction	An isotonic muscle contraction in which the muscle shortens while generating force.
splendens -ent	shining: with a metallic glitter.
element	any substance that cannot be broken down to any other substance
photosynthesis	The conversion of light energy to chemical energy that is stored in glucose or other organic compounds; occurs in plants, algae, and certain prokaryotes.
cellulose	carbohydrate polymer of the simple sugar glucose
amphipathic	Having both hydrophobic and hydrophilic regions, as in a phospholipid or a detergent molecule.
viscera	the internal organs of the body.
bilateral -eriter	with two equal or symmetrical sides.
infra	below or beneath: opposed to supra.
transition state	A fleeting point when a chemical reaction can run to product or back to reactant.
immigrate	To enter into a new habitat.
pharmaceutical proteins	Proteins manufactured for use as drugs.
metaphase	second phase of mitosis in which the chromosomes line up across the equator of the cell.
vertebra	A component of the vertebral column, or backbone, found in vertebrates.
alluvial fan	n
discoidal field	see discoidal area.
embryo sac	This is the mature female gametophyte
remacemide	A drug that acts as an NMDA receptor antagonist
nasuti	that type of termite soldiers that have the head prolonged into a point.
hdj1	A human protein that is known to exert protective effects against polyglutamine toxicity.
purine	Nitrogenous base consisting of a double ring structure
blastula	The hollow ball of cells marking the end stage of cleavage during early embryonic development.
mendel	Gregor Johann Mendel, Austrian Monk, 1822-1884
sympatry	The occurrence of species together in the same area.
freezing point	The highest temperature at which a liquid can turn to a solid and freeze
anion	An ion with a negative charge
membrane potential	Voltage difference across a membrane due to a slight excess of positive ions on one side and of negative ions on the other
truncate	cut off squarely at tip.
mucilage	A gumlike material covering some bacteria (e.g
siphonostele	When a plant's vascular tissue develops as a central cylinder, it is said to have a siphonostele
omega-6 fatty acid	Essential fatty acids that use the same enzymes as omega-3 fatty acids to produce their final products.
posterior	Of or pertaining to the rear, or tail, end.
nucleoside	Purine or pyrimidine base attached to ribose or deoxyribose sugar.
miniate -us	of the color of red lead [vermilion with a slight admixture of dragon's blood].
fold	Bent rock strata.
c. elegans	Known as Caenorhabditis elegans
pompe disease	A genetic disorder affecting both children and adults that is characterized by progressive muscle weakness and breathing difficulty
catenate	with longitudinal connected elevations like links in a chain.
noradrenaline	A hormone, produced by the medulla of the adrenal gland, that increases the concentration of glucose in the blood, raises blood pressure and heartbeat rate, and increases muscular power and resistance to fatigue; also one of the principal neurotransmitters; also called norepinephrine.
trimera	that series of Coleoptera, in which there are only three tarsal joints present.
reflected or reflexed	angularly bent backward.
uracil-n-glycosylase	A repair enzyme that removes uracil from DNA by cleaving the bond between the base and the sugar backbone
glycolipid	A molecule consisting of a short carbohydrate chain attached to a lipid.
dg	sn-1,2-diacylglycerol.
foetid glands	glandular structures from which a foul smelling liquid may be ejected.
biogeography	The study of the past and present distribution of species.
nopalry	a plantation of cacti for raising cochineal insects.
component	one part of a combined whole.
gonadotropin	A hormone that stimulates the activities of the testes and ovaries
lactose	The major sugar in milk.
culture	Population of microorganisms cultivated in an artificial growth medium
ground tissue	In plants one of the three main tissue types
fluorophore	A molecule that emits fluorescence.
sit	Structured Intermittent Therapy
complex	Containing multiple macromolecules in an organized structure
glycoprotein	Any protein to which one or more oligosaccharide chains are covalently linked
iapetus ocean	n
ligase	Enzyme that joins together (ligates) two molecules in an energy-dependent process
cell body	In a
nanopore detection	A high-throughput technique for the detection of differences in single DNA strands based on the use of an ionic current to pull DNA through a pore created by a channel protein.
biomagnification	Increase in the concentration of a chemical substance as it is progresses to higher trophic levels of a food chain.
chiral	A compound that cannot be superimosed on its mirror image.
secund	pointing one way: unilateral.
turgid	Firm
iridescent	a surface which reflects the prismatic hues.
mutualism/mutualisms	The way in which two organisms interact biologically so that each derives a fitness benefit.
biosynthesis	Production of needed cellular constituents from other, usually simpler, molecules.
sterilization	the process whereby all microorganisms and their propagules are killed by exposure to heat (see AUTOCLAVING), radiation, or chemicals, or removed by filtration.
nonsense mutation	A change in the base sequence that converts a sense codon (one that specifies an amino acid) to one that specifies a stop (a nonsense codon)
functional genomics	Area of genomics that studies the functions of genetic information contained within genomes.
syntrophy	A nutritional situation in which two or more organisms combine their metabolic capabilities to catabolize a substance not capable of being catabolized by either one alone.
axostyle	Rodlike supporting structure in some flagellates that gives rigidity to the body (Trichomonas spp.).
elevational gradient	As one travels to higher elevations, the number of species peaks at mid-elevations or declines.
katsuobushi	a Japanese fermented food; cooked bonito fish is fermented by Aspergillus glaucus until dry; the product is shaved into ribbons and used for flavouring other foods.
lowland	n
low-level radioactive waste	waste that is contaminated with smaller quantities of radioactive materials than HLW and specifically excludes spent nuclear fuel
prototheria	See Monotremes.
triglyceride	an ester of three fatty acid molecules and one glycerol molecule
isothermal	Occurring at constant temperature.
fungicide	an agent designed to kill fungi; may be chemical or biological.
fluoxetine	A member of the class of drugs known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs)
ketosis	A condition in which the concentration of ketone bodies in the blood, tissues, and urine is abnormally high.
cork cambium	A cylinder of meristematic tissue in woody plants that replaces the epidermis with thicker, tougher cork cells.
superposed	placed one above the other, as the frontal tufts in some moths.
t lymphocyte	A type of immune cell responsible for many cell-mediated immune responses plus stimulation of differentiation of antibody-producing lymphocytes (i.e
metastasis	the spread of cancer to locations distant form original site
anal orifice	see anus.
supra-cerebral	applied to that pair of salivary glands situated above the brain in bees.
arabidopsis thaliana	A small plant used as a model organism for the study of plant genetics.
phenotypic fingerprint	The overall biochemical, physiological, and morphological profile of an organism.
lipase	Enzyme that catalyzes the cleavage of fatty acids from the glycerol moiety of a triglyceride.
dependent	hanging down.
patric	home or country of origin.
hybrid cell	A cell formed by fusion of two cells
determination	The progressive restriction of developmental potential, causing the possible fate of each cell to become more limited as the embryo develops.
association constant	see affinity constant
molecular chaperone	see chaperone
ecological restoation	Efforts to recreate, initiate, or accelerate the recovery of an ecosystem that has been disturbed.
senescence	The process of aging.
appendicitis	Inflammation of the vermiform appendix (amebiasis; Ascaris, Trichuris, and Enterobius infections).
conservation biology	The integrated study of ecology, evolutionary biology, physiology, molecular biology, genetics, and behavioral biology in an effort to sustain biological diversity at all levels.
cut-and-paste transposition	Type of movement of a transposable element in which it is cut out of the DNA and inserted into a new site by a special transposase enzyme.
vertical transmission	See horizontal transmission.
extent	The extended range of study, or the area included within the landscape boundary, such as a national park or state.
nutrient	A substance taken by a cell from its environment and used in catabolic or anabolic ractions.
condensation polymerization	a type of polymerization in which a small molecule such as water is split out (eliminated) when the monomers join to form a polymer
cell theory	The theory, developed in the nineteenth century, that organisms are composed of cells, which act as structural, functional, and developmental units of organization.
releaser	A general term for a stimulus that triggers a fixed action pattern.
anaplasia	The reversion of a cell to a simpler, undifferentiated form.
self-replication	See self-renewal.
low copy repeat	A term with variable meaning that is sometimes used synonymously with segmental duplication
in vivo	In an intact cell or organism.
concentration gradient	difference in concentration that exists between two regions resulting in diffusion.
reverse mutation	Mutation that changes a mutant phenotype back into the wild type.
salinity	A measure of the salt concentration of water
dna repair	Collective name for those biochemical processes that correct accidental changes in the DNA.
host-vector system	A system for the propagation of a DNA vector in a host cell.
molecular clock	See Evolutionary clock.
molarity	A common measure of solute concentration, referring to the number of moles of solute in 1 L of solution.
'fungi imperfecti'	an unfortunate and obsolete name for anamorphic fungi which are, or are suspected to be, the anamorphs of ascomycetes or basidiomycetes; better called `conidial fungi.' They are no less perfect than the teleomorphs some of them possess.
no	see nitric oxide
humid	applied to regions in which the normal rainfall is sufficient to produce ordinary farm crops without irrigation: see arid.
conduction	(1) In the study of heat, the transfer of heat by intermolecular collisions through a material that is macroscopically motionless
batesian mimicry	The similarity in appearance of a harmless species (the mimic) to a species that is harmful or distasteful to predators (the model), maintained because of selective advantage to the relatively rare mimic.
genetic diversity	The number of different genetic combinations available in a given gene pool.
nadp+	Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate, an acceptor that temporarily stores energized electrons produced during the light reactions.
haploinsufficient gene	Must be present in two copies for normal function
transformation	Mechanism by which DNA found in the medium is taken up by the cell
in vivo	In an intact cell or organism
catenane	An interlocked pair of circular structures, such as covalently closed DNA molecules.
insect	a member of the class Insecta strictly limited.
glochis	a barbed point.
variegation	Irregularity in pigmentation of plant or animal tissues due to variations in phenotype of different sectors of the tissue.
thioester	An ester of a carboxylic acid with a thiol or mercaptan.
limnology	The study of river system ecology and life.
heat	energy that flows from a hotter to a colder object
fraternal twins	Nonidentical twins that arise when two different eggs are fertilized by two different sperm.
insertus	a part that has its base set into another.
chlorophylls	A family of green pigments functioning as receptors of light energy in photosynthesis; magnesium-porphyrin complexes.
xylophaga	wood-eaters: applied in several orders.
fimbriae	Thin, proteinaceous filaments that extend from the cell surface of microbial cells and facilate adhesion to solid surfaces or other cells.
superans	exceeding in size and length.
anceps	two-edged; similar to ensiform, q.v.
pterygodes	the patagia or tegtila: q.v.
animal physiology	The study of the functional properties of animals; the study of “how animals work.”
barotolerant	An organism able to tolerate high hydrostatic pressure, although growing better at normal pressures.
neuroprotectant drugs	Drugs that prevent harmful calcium ions from destroying the m\itochondria of the nerve cells, which leads to cell death
chondrichthyes	The vertebrate class of cartilaginous fishes, represented by sharks and their relatives.
vehicle	Nonliving source of pathogens which infect large numbers of individuals; common vehicles are food and water.
molecular weight	The sum of the atomic weights of the constituent atoms in a molecule.
dna	The molecule that encodes genetic information
oxidation	Loss of electrons from an atom or molecule as occurs when hydrogen is removed from a molecule or oxygen is added
open-circular	The non-supercoiled conformation taken up by a circular double-stranded DNA molecule when one or both polynucleotides carry nicks.
dyspepsia	/dis-PEP-see-yə/ n
glycogen	An extensively branched glucose storage polysaccharide found in the liver and muscle of animals; the animal equivalent of starch.
salvage pathway	Synthesis of a biomolecule, such as a nucleotide, from intermediates in the degradative pathway for the biomolecule; a recycling pathway, as distinct from a de novo pathway.
anal appendages	generally; applied to the external genital parts.
dejecta	/də-JEK-tə, dee-/ n
dorsal space	in slug-caterpillars is the area between the sub-dorsal ridges.
lipochromus	without color.
cytosine	One of the four nitrogenous bases found in DNA; pairs with the base guanine; often abbreviated as the letter "C"; see Figure B-3.
bottleneck effect	A form of genetic drift that occurs when a population is reduced in size (population crash) and later expands in numbers (population flush)
immunoglobulin	Proteins (antibodies) produced by B lymphocytes and plasma cells in response to stimulation by antigen
methanogenesis	The biological production of methane.
hepatomegaly	Enlargement of the liver.
comminute	to grind up fine: to reduce to minute particles.
wasting	See atrophy.
standard curve	A quantitative research tool used to determine the concentration or copy number of an unknown substance
hydrolysis	Cleavage of a covalent bond with accompanying addition of water, –H being added to one product of the cleavage and –OH to the other.
grand mal	Another term for generalized tonic-clonic seizures.
lubricate -ous	covered with a slippery mucus.
propedes	= prolegs: q.v.
overnourishment	A diet that is chronically excessive in calories.
sucrose	Disaccharide composed of one glucose unit and one fructose unit
bipinnate	Describing a pinnate leaf in which the leaflets themselves are further subdivided in a pinnate fashion.
eusocial	Highly specialized sociality generally including individuals of one generation living together, cooperative care of young, division of individuals into nonreproductive or reproductive castes.
life expectancy at birth	The predicted average length of life at birth.
enzymatic biodegradation	Enzyme-induced biological breakdown of materials.
ligase	Enzyme that forms a bond between one carbon and another, or between a carbon and a sulfur, oxygen, or nitrogen via condensation reactions that use energy from adenosine triphosphate (ATP).
protozoan pl. protozoa	A protist that lives primarily by ingesting food, an animal-like mode of nutrition.
conjugation	process in bacteria and protists that involves an exchange of genetic information.
dacryocystitis	/dack-ree-oh-sist-TIGHT-əs/ n
nadh dehydrogenase complex	First of the three electron-driven proton pumps in the mitochondrial respiratory chain
nonshivering thermogenesis	The increased production of heat in some mammals by the action of certain hormones that cause mitochondria to increase their metabolic activity and produce heat instead of ATP
racemic mixture	mixture consisting of equal amounts of each optical isomer of a compound
lactic acid	fermentation The conversion of pyruvate to lactate with no release of carbon dioxide.
calpains	a family of calcium dependent proteases
strata	Layers of sedimentary rock that were deposited at different times.
carbon fixation	Conversion of carbon dioxide or other single-carbon compounds to organic forms such as carbohydrates.
maxillofacial surgery	The surgical correction of or relating to the upper jaw and face.
translesion synthesis	A mechanism that resumes stalled replication due to a damage on the template strand
electron transport chain	Also known as the respiratory chain
clone	An identical copy of an organism
free radical	See radical.
diving bradycardia	Slowing of the heart rate during diving.
clinical trials	A type of research study that is used to evaluate the effects of new drugs, medical devices, or other treatments on participants in scientifically controlled settings
facies	the face: the general appearance or impression.
cellulose	A structural polysaccharide made of glucose units linked together by β(1n4) glycosidic bonds
biotin	Low-molecular-weight compound used as a coenzyme
take-all	a cereal disease caused by Gaeumannomyces graminis (Diaporthales: Ascomycetes).
adenosine triphosphate	See ATP.
chert	A sedimentary rock composed largely of tiny quartz crystals (SiO,) precipitated from aqueous solutions.
epithelial tissue	see epithelium
papillate -us	a surface with small elevations which are porous at tip.
lambdoid	A group of phage that are related to the E
adhesion plaque	see focal adhesion.
il-1	Abbreviation for interleukin-1.
correlated	derived from the same ancestral form: said of two or more features or qualities which bear a direct or an inverse relation to each other, but without implying a relation of cause and effect.
florigen	A flowering signal, not yet chemically identified, that may be a hormone or may be a change in relative concentrations of multiple hormones
livid	yellowish gray with a violet tinge: greenish gray.
clustering	A bioinformatics technique for visualizing patterns in experimental data.
circadian	A biological activity with a periodicity of 24 hrs that is independent of environmental variation.
positive supercoiling	Superhelical turns of a DNA double helix molecule.
pedipalps	The second pair of appendages of cheliceromorphs
chondrocyte	Connective-tissue cell that secretes the matrix of cartilage.
calorific value	number of kilojoules of energy released when 1g of a food is burned.
cation-exchange resin	An insoluble polymer with fixed negative charges; used in the chromatographic separation of cationic substances.
asymmetric carbon	A carbon that is covalently bonded to four different groups.
virtual cell	A computational simulation of a living cell.
extreme halophile	A prokaryote that lives in a highly saline environment, such as the Great Salt Lake or the Dead Sea
glutaraldehyde	Small reactive molecule with two aldehyde groups that is often used as a cross-linking fixative.
urinary bladder	The pouch where urine is stored prior to elimination.
luminophore	A luminescent substance.
non-composite transposon	A transposible element that is NOT flanked by IS elements.
attingent	touching.
continental drift	The gradual movement of the Earth's continents that has occurred over hundreds of millions of years.
antibody	Immunoglobulin produced by lymphoid cells upon exposure to a specific antigen.
plaque	A localized area of clearing in a bacterial lawn on an agar plate
nodule	A swelling on the root of a legume
solvent	A substance, usually a liquid or gas into which another substance will dissolve
adenosine tri-phosphate	A nucleotide like compound containing three phosphate groups
active transport	Refers to a series of energy requiring methods used by cells to get molecules, atoms or ions into or out of the cell
soil quality	Continued capacity of soil to function as a vital living system to sustain biological productivity, maintain the quality of the environment, and promote plant, animal, and human health.
centromere	A specialized site within a chromosome, serving as the attachment point for the mitotic or meiotic spindle.
surface water	water from lakes, rivers, and reservoirs
hominid	A species on the human branch of the evolutionary tree; a member of the family Hominidae, including Homo sapiens and our ancestors.
alzheimer's disease	An age-related dementia (mental deterioration) characterized by confusion, memory loss, and other symptoms.
lamellate	antennae with the club formed of closely opposed leaf-like surfaces, the concealed surfaces set with sensory pits.
motif	A small portion of a protein (typically less than 20 amino acids) that is homologous to regions in other proteins that perform a similar function.
ontogenetic	Allometry the relationship of x and y that are traits measured in the same individual through developmental time.
bearded	fringed with hair: see barbated.
creodonts	An extinct order of early Cenozoic placental mammals that were the dominant carnivores until replaced by the modern order Carnivora during the Oligocene period.
als	Abbreviation for Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis.
calmodulin	Ubiquitous calcium-binding protein whose binding to other proteins is governed by changes in intracellular Ca2+ concentration
label	A fluorescent chemical group or radioactive atom incorporated into a molecule in order to spatially locate the molecule or follow it through a reaction or purification scheme
dental plaque	Bacterial cells encased in a matrix of extracellular polymers and salivary products, found on the teeth.
ferrugino-testaeeous	a rusty yellow brown: a mixture of rusty red with dull yellow brown.
agarose	A carbohydrate polymer used as a matrix for electrophoresis.
yoctomole	One septillionth mole; 10-24 mole.
psychedelic	mind-altering, hallucinogenic, psychoactive.
peptide bond	An amide bond formed between two amino acids by the linkage of the amino group of one amino acid to the carboxyl group of a second amino acid.
essential nutrient	A substance that an organism must absorb in preassembled form because it cannot be synthesized from any other material
contig	KAWN-tig/ A nucleotide sequence constructed by assembling overlapping cloned nucleotide sequences
nutrient cycling	All the processes by which nutrients are transferred from one organism to another
hydronium ion	Water molecule associated with an additional proton.
epidemic	(of disease) prevalent and spreading rapidly among many individuals in an population at the same time.
concerted evolution	Maintenance of a homogeneous nucleotide sequence among the members of a gene family, which evolves over time.
taxonomical	systematic: relating to classification.
thylakoid	Closed cisterna, or disc, formed by the pigment-bearing internal membranes of chloroplasts.
complete dominance	The type of inheritance in which both
aqueous	Similar to or resembling water
heterotroph	An organism that obtains organic food molecules by eating other organisms or their by-products.
invertebrate	An animal without a backbone; invertebrates make up 95% of animal species.
respiratory surface	The part of an animal where gases are exchanged with the environment.
electrophile	An electron-deficient group with a strong tendency to accept electrons from an electron-rich group (nucleophile).
node	The region of a stem between two internodes, where there is branching of the vascular tissue into leaves or other appendages.
ureotelic	Excreting excess nitrogen in the form of urea.
lineate	marked with lines or streaks: lined.
virion	A virus particle.
semi-lunar	in the form of half a crescent.
axis	In the study of endocrinology, two or more hormone-secreting tissues that together form an hierarchical control system.
protostele	When a plant's vascular tissue develops in a solid central bundle, it is said to have a protostele
kappa chain	One of the two types of light chains that occur in antibodies.
wavelength	distance between successive peaks of waves in the electromagnetic spectrum
pseudorevertant	A revertant that retains the original mutation but has a second mutation at a different site that partially or fully restores the wild-type phenotype
partite -us	divided; e.g
benign	Referring to a tumor containing cells that closely resemble normal cells
isomorphous	having the same form, appearance or construction.
hypertonic/hypotonic	Hypertonic is a relative term referring to a solution with a greater concentration of solute(greater tonicity) than another solution
inter-clonal	Between clones.
molar	Describes a solution with a concentration of 1 mole of a substance dissolved in 1 liter of solution (abbreviated as 1 M).
phylogeny	The evolutionary relationships among organisms; the patterns of lineage branching produced by the true evolutionary history of the organisms being considered.
hair cell	A type of mechanoreceptor that detects sound waves and other forms of movement in air or water.
one-step growth curve	A plot of the production of lytic growth of a virus vs time
alkane	a hydrocarbon with only single bonds between the carbon atoms
specific	Unique; for example, the proteins in a given organism, the enzyme catalyzing a given reaction, or the antibody to a given antigen.
replication	Conversion of one double-stranded DNA molecule into two identical double-stranded DNA molecules.
impulse	The signal that travels along the length of a nerve fiber and ends in the release of neurotransmitters
dna ligase	The enzyme that joins the 5' and 3' ends of polynucleotide chains by the formation of a phosphodiester bond between them.
blue-green alga	See cyanobacterium.
tracheation	the arrangement or system of distribution of trachea.
focus	The initial point within the Earth that ruptures in an earthquake, directly below the epicenter.
cubital forks	the branching or points of separation of the branches of the cubits.
initial velocity	the initial linear portion of the enzyme reaction when less than 10% of the substrate has been depleted or 10% of the product has formed
blunt ends	Flush DNA ends generated by restriction enzymes that cut both DNA strands at the same point.
topology	The study of the deformability of intact structures.
toxic shock symdrome	Acute shock resulting from host response to an exotoxin produced by Staphylococcus aureus.
inheritance of acquired characteristics	Early notion of gene transmission proposing that acquired traits are passed to descendants.
lag phase	The period after inoculation of a population before growth begins.
ap site	A molecule of single-stranded or double-stranded DNA missing a purine or pyrimidine base.
soil texture	Relative proportions of the various soil separates in a soil
rami -us	branches: a branch.
amino group	The -NH2 group, a weakly basic group found in organic molecules.
sedimentation coefficient	A physical constant specifying the rate of sedimentation of a particle in a centrifugal field under specified conditions.
multigene family	A collection of genes with similar or identical sequences, presumably of common origin.
peptone	a soluble proteid compound produced by the digestion of albummenoid food substances.
stenorhynchan	narrow beaked or snouted.
hydrophobic	Not dissolving readily in water (“water hating”); typically lipid-soluble.
polar covalent bond	A covalent bond between atoms that differ in electronegativity
active site	region on an enzyme molecule to which substrate molecule becomes attached during he reaction.
buffer solution	chemical that keeps an experiment at required pH.
amino acid analog	See analog.
cyclin-cdk complex	Protein complexes that are formed periodically during the eucaryotic cell cycle as the level of cyclin increases, and in which the cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk) becomes partially activated.
escrt-0	Nomenclature for the HRS–STAM complex, which was proposed as a recent extension of the originally defined ESCRT-I, -II and -III.
quarternary structure	The folded structure of a protein including all of the polypeptides required for the intact, fuctional protein.
regulation	Proceses that control the rates of synthesis of proteins
arthroconidium	An asexual spore formed by the breaking up of a hypha at the point of septation
nocturnal	A lifestyle characterized by nighttime activity.
valgate	enlarged at bottom: club-footed.
nodose -us	knotted or with knots; a body with one or more knotted parts a sculpture with almost isolated knots.
green flourescent protein	An intrinsically fluorescent protein from the jellyfish Aequorea victoria
epiphyte	A plant which grows upon another plant
electrolyte	conducting solute in solution
instinct	An inherited (innate), relatively inflexible behavior pattern that is often activated by one or several environmental factors (releasers).
hpv	Human Papilloma Virus
nonsulfur purple bacteria	A group of phototrophic prokaryotes containing bacteriachlorophylls a or b which grow best as photohetertrophs and have a relatively low tolerance for hydrogen sulfide (H2O).
fatty acid molecule	molecule with two structural features: a nonpolar long hydrocarbon chain generally containing an even number of carbon atoms (typically 12 to 24) and a polar carboxylic acid group at the end of the chain
ash-gray	a mixture of black and white, with a faint orange tinge: like ashes of anthracite coal.
dementia	severe impairment of mental functioning.
fractional  saturation	The fractional saturation refers to the degree of saturation of an oligmeric structure to ligand, that is:
oxygen equilibrium curve	Referring to the O2-carrying properties of blood, a graph of the amount of O2 per unit of blood volume as a function of the O2 partial pressure of the blood
basic	Adjective used to describe a substance or solution that contains a relatively low amount of positive hydrogen ions.
nucleoside analog	See analog.
folate	The naturally occurring version of folic acid.
proton	a subatomic particle with single positive charge found in nucleus of an atom
brca1	a gene that normally helps to restrain cell growth.
normalization	A database refinement process that organizes a database so that results obtained from queries to the database are always unambiguous.
sulfhydryl group	A functional group consisting of a sulfur atom bonded to a hydrogen atom (—SH).
analogy	The deduction of the function of a new gene or protein by comparison with genes or proteins of known function using similarity searching and alignment.
bilamellar	divided into two lamina or plates.
catalytic site	The site of an enzyme involved in the catalytic process.
oocyte	The developing egg
nitric oxide synthase	a family of enzymes responsible for the synthesis of nitric oxide (NO)
anterior	Situated toward the head end of the body.
nonpolar	Lacking any asymmetric accumulation of positive and negative charge
mycosis	The general term for a fungal infection.
arthritis	A disease characterized by joint inflammation
cooperation	An association in which all members benefit.
porin	A rotein channel in the lipopolysaccharide layer of gram-negative bacteria.
puffball	a gasteromycete basidioma in which the basidiospore mass (gleba) is enclosed by a papery peridium at maturity; an ostiole allows compression or wind suction to disperse basidiospores in the Lycoperdales and Tulostomatales; the basidiomata of the Sclerodermales have no ostiole.
basalt	A fine-grained igneous rock found in oceanic crust and produced in lava flows.
penniform	feather-like in form.
parallel evolution	The evolution of similar characters in related lineages whose common ancestor was phenotypically different
supercoiled dna	Double-stranded circular DNA in which either overwinding or underwinding of the duplex makes the circle twist
host	An organism capable of supporting the growth of a virus or other parasite.
trimer	A molecule that is made of three monomers bound together.
aves	The vertebrate class of birds, characterized by feathers and other flight adaptations.
treadmilling	The process by which a polymeric protein filament is maintained at constant length by addition of protein subunits at one end and loss of subunits at the other
read-through	Failure to stop transcription at a normal termination signal.
biomes	The world's major communities, classified according to the predominant vegetation and characterized by adaptations of organisms to that particular environment
ediacaran strata	Geological formations containing soft- bodied invertebrate fossils found in South Australia and other places, dating to a Precambrian period lasting about 60 or more million years.
homoplasy	Character similarity that arose independently in different groups whether through parallelism or convergence.
mg	see MILLIGRAM.
diatomic molecule	molecule that contains two atoms
endemic	A species or population that is specific (indigenous) to a particular geographic region.
chromogen	A molecule with a chromophore that is colorless until the chromophore is modified chemically.
crateriform	like a shallow funnel or deep bowl.
water activity	expresses the available water in a substrate as a decimal fraction of the amount present when the substrate is in equilibrium with a saturated atmosphere (an equilibrium relative humidity of 70% around the substrate means that the substrate has a water activity of 0.70).
kin structure	Genetic relationships within a social group.
isoprene	The hydrocarbon 2-methyl-1,3-butadiene, a recurring structural unit of the terpenoid biomolecules.
coevolution	Strictly, the joint evolution of two (or more) ecologically interacting species, each of which evolves in response to selection imposed by the other
thermogenesis	In the context of thermal relations, production of heat for the specific function of warming tissues.
electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry	A method for the solution ionization and mass analysis of macromolecules and small polar molecules.
agglutination	Aggregation or clumping of particles, such as bacteria when exposed to specific antibody.
stroke	The death of nervous tissue in the brain, usually resulting from rupture or blockage of arteries in the head.
generalized	primitive: containing in combination characters that are separated and specialized in other forms.
electrical gradient	Technically, the difference in electrical potential (voltage) between two places divided by the distance separating those two places
mitochondrial myopathies	A group of neuromuscular diseases caused by damage to the mitochondria in cells.
nucleoid	In bacteria, the nuclear zone that contains the chromosome but has no surrounding membrane.
homeostasis	The steady-state physiological condition of the body
actual evapotranspiration	The amount of water annually transpired by plants and evaporated from a landscape, usually measured in millimeters.
thigh	see femur.
k-selection	Selection based on a population being maintained at or near the limit of its carrying capacity; selection is theoretically for improved competitive ability rather than for rapid numerical increase
std	Sexually Transmitted Disease
diastole	The period of relaxation during each beating cycle of a heart.
affinity	Inherent attraction and relationship.
anaerobic	The absence of oxygen
covalent bond	A strong chemical bond that results from the sharing of electrons between two atoms.
di	as a prefix, = two.
segregating	The state of a population that has more than one relatively common allele present at a given locus (antonym: fixed).
virus	A small, infectious, obligate intracellular parasite
islet	A smaller genetic island that only encodes one or a few gene products.
nick	A single-strand break, involving the absence of one or more nucleotides, in a double-stranded DNA molecule
heavy isotopes	Forms of atoms that contain greater numbers of neutrons than the most common form (e.g., 15N, l3C).
young earth creationist	A believer in Young Earth Creationism
variant	Phenotype that is different from the wild type or standard.
crus	a leg or leg-like structure.
koji	a `starter' consisting of Aspergillus oryzae cultured on roasted wheat or barley (for hamanatto) or A
conidiophore	An aerial hypha bearing condiospores.
adequate stimulus	The kind of stimulus energy to which a receptor is most sensitive, or the kind of stimulus to which it normally responds.
endothermic	term applied to any chemical or physical change that absorbs energy
orthogenesis	The concept that evolution of a group of related species proceeds in a particular direction (for example, an increase in size) because of unknown internal or vitalistic causes rather than because of nonmystical factors such as selection.
gap repair	The repair of a gap (or nick) introduced into a DNA strand by the loss of one or more nucleotides.
bond energy	amount of energy that must be absorbed to break a specific chemical bond
anaphylatoxins	The C3a and C5a fractions during complement fixation
inositol phospholipids	One of a family of lipids containing phosphorylated inositol derivatives
biosynthesis	The production of chemical compounds by living organisms.
probability	Frequency of an event in an number of repetitions of an experiment.
capillaries	Small, thin-walled blood vessels that allow oxygen to diffuse from the blood into the cells and carbon dioxide to diffuse from the cells into the blood
homelogous proteins	Proteins having sequences and functions similar in difierent species; for example, the hemoglobins
organic chemistry	the branch of chemistry devoted to the study of carbon compounds
merophytes	Group of cells which have all been produced from the same initial cell
spiniform	in the form or shape of a spine.
transverse	when the longest diameter is across the body.
antheridium	Male gametangium.
consanguinity	Related through at least one common ancestor.
juvenile hd	Juvenile Huntington's disease (juvenile HD) is a form of Huntington's disease with an onset before age 20
thioester bond	High-energy bond formed by a condensation reaction between an acid (acyl) group and a thiol group (–SH); seen, for example, in acetyl CoA and in many enzyme-substrate complexes.
chloroplasts	Plant cells that use energy from sunlight to create food.
clubbed	see clavate.
variance	Measure of the degree of dispersion associated with a characteristic
chrysargyrus	silvery gilt.
chemiosmotic coupling	Mechanism in which a gradient of hydrogen ions (a pH gradient) across a membrane is used to drive an energy-requiring process, such as ATP production or the rotation of bacterial flagella.
achiral	A compound that may be superimposed on its mirror image
bohr shift	A lowering of the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen, caused by a drop in pHFacilitates the release of oxygen from hemoglobin in the vicinity of active tissues
foliar	relating to leaves.
catabolism	The biochemical processes involved in the breakdown of organic compounds, usually leading to the production of energy.
annelloconidium	A conidium formed from an annellide.
monoculture	condition in which one species is grown in an extensive pure stand; describes most agricultural situations.
haart	Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy
cascade	A series of events that result in transmission and usually amplification of a weak signal.
phosphorylation	The addition of a phosphate group to a molecule.
paraphyletic	Term applied to a group of organisms which includes the most recent common ancestor of all of its members, but not all of the descendants of that most recent common ancestor
nonessential amino acids	Amino acids that can be made by humans and other vertebrates from simpler precursors, and are thus not required in the diet.
lactate	An organic acid produced from fermentation by a wide range of bacteria and the skeletal muscles of our bodies under anaerobic conditions.
edentate -ulous	without teeth.
bacteria	Members of the Bacteria, one of the two major divisions of procaryotes, the other being the Archea
generalized seizure	A seizure that involves the entire brain
hydroxyl group	A functional group consisting a hydrogen atom bonded to an oxygen atom
sustainable agriculture	Long-term productive farming methods that are environmentally safe.
malignant	Invasive, capable of metastasis.
phycocyanin	blue, water-soluble pigment found in the cyanobacteria and the red algae.
crossing-over	During the first
sythetic phenotype	A distinct phenotype that requires the presence of two mutations, and either of the mutations alone does not exhibit the same phenotype
electron	a subatomic particle with a single negative charge; one or more electrons move around the nucleus
join point.	The site where two DNA molecules are connected
species composition	The species present in a community.
epideme	see articulatory epideme.
ligament	A type of fibrous connective tissue that joins bones together at joints.
transposon	A transposable element that moves within a genome by means of a DNA intermediate.
derivatives	New cells that are displaced from an apical meristem and continue to divide until the cells they produce become specialized.
inquiline	living as guests in the homes of others; as in galls.
micromodification	Post-translational modification of a protein.
fluorophor	A fluorescent molecule or group.
corpus luteum	A structure formed from the ovulated follicle
autocatalytic reaction	Instances in which the agent that promotes (catalyzes) a reaction is formed as a product of
bioprocess	A method for preparing biological products, for commercial use.
carboxylic acid	An organic compound that has an acidic group consisting of a carbon with a double-bond attachment to an oxygen atom and a single-bond attachment to a hydroxyl group (0=C-OH).
tetraradiate	describes the staurospores of some stream-inhabiting fungi; the four (sometimes more) arms ensure a stable three-point landing on the substrate.
activated carrier	Small diffusible molecule in cells that stores easily-exchangeable energy in the form of one or more energy-rich covalent bonds
cistron	Segment of DNA which codes for a specific protein, and the start and stop signals of that segment.
vitelligenous	producing the vitellus or yolk: said of certain cells in the ovaries, believed to have that function.
alpha-linolenic acid	An essential fatty acid
hatched	closely marked with numerous short, transverse lines.
costula	Hymenoptera; a small ridge separating the externo-median meta-thoracic area into two parts.
vitamin b3	Another term for nicotinamide.
photosynthesis	Complex series of reactions occurring in some bacteria and plant chloroplasts whereby light energy is used to generate carbohydrates from CO2, usually with the consumption of H2O and evolution of O2.
atomic nucleus	An atom's central core, containing protons and neutrons.
nutant	nodding; the tip bent toward the horizon.
magnetotaxis	Movement toward the magnetic poles due to the presence of magnetosomes.
germ layers	Three main layers that form the various tissues and organs of an animal body.
hydrolysis	splitting of a molecule into two parts by adding hydrogen and hydroxyl ions derived from water.
sugar	Small carbohydrates with a monomer unit of general formula (CH2O)n
germicide	A substance that inhibits or kills microorganisms.
alkylating agent	Substance that alters DNA by adding alkyl groups.
fluorescence probe	Molecules that change in fluorescence upon interacting with another structure.
biophotonics	Biological applications of photonics, a technology that utilizes light and other forms of radiant energy in which a quantum unit is the photon.
ante-humeral	relating to the space just before origin of wings.
smith-waterman	A sensitive algorithm for identifying sequence similarities.
order	A taxonomic grouping of related, similar families; the category below class and above family.
cavernous	divided into small spaces or little caverns.
endocranium	the inner surface of the cranium.
rate-limiting step	(1) Generally, the step in an enzymatic reaction with the greatest activation energy or the transition state of highest free energy
domain	A segment of a folded protein structure showing conformational integrity
headful packaging	The packaging (filling) of a viral capsid with viral nucleic acid until the capsid is full
recombination	Genetic exchange resulting from a cross-over between two different DNA molecules or different regions of a DNA molecule
fenestrations	Minute, physical openings—pores—in the walls of blood capillaries
complementarity	The reverse structural correspondence of one molecule to another, such as an antibody to an antigen, an enzyme to a substrate, or the bases in a base pair.
heart attack	The death of cardiac muscle tissue resulting from prolonged blockage of one or more coronary arteries.
mems	MicroElectroMechanical Systems
dispersion forces	attractions between molecules that result from a distortion of the electron cloud that causes an uneven distribution of the negative charge
bergmann's rule	The generalization that animals living in colder climates tend to be larger than those of the same group living in warmer climates.
nucleotide	A monomeric unit of nucleic acid, consisting of a sugar (ribose), a phosphate, and a nitrogenous base.
culture collections	Large repositories of microorganisms and cell lines, maintained by institutions and countries
complete compensation	See compensation.
phospholipids	see LIPIDS.
isomers	Two molecules that have the same molecular formula (e.g
oligotrophic	Describing a body of water in which nutrients are in low supply.
carminate -ed	mixed or tinged with carmine.
eukaryote	A cell or organism having a unit membrane-bound (true) nucleus and usually other organelles.
ganglioside	Any glycolipid having one or more sialic acid residues in its structure
consortium	A two- (or more) membered bacterial culture (or natural assemblage) in which each organism benefits from the other.
flosculus	a small, tubular lunulate anal organ with a central style, in certain Fulgorids.
repand	wavy; with alternate segments of circles and intervening angles.
chromoprotein	A protein that contains a chromophore, a molecule that absorbs light.
metabolism	The total of physical and chemical processes that occur in an organism to maintain life.
triose	A simple sugar with a backbone containing three carbon atoms.
dorsal	Relating to the back of an animal or the upper surface of a structure (e.g., leaf, wing).
calvin cycle	A series of reactions by which six molecules of CO2 are converted into glucose.
diffusion	The net movement of molecules in the direction of lower concentration.
flaccid	feeble: limber: lax.
bimaculate	with two spots or maculae.
heterologous	Consisting of different elements.
sub-equal	similar, but not quite equal in size, form or other characters.
turnover	The mixing of waters as a result of changing water-temperature profiles in a lake.
sinistral	extending to or at the left from the median line.
substrate	(1) the food of a fungus; (2) substance acted on by an enzyme; (3) the material from which a fungus is fruiting - e.g
s phase	See cell cycle.
proximad	toward the proximal end.
terminal inverted repeats	Sequences found at both ends of a transposable element that are inverted complements of one another.
ionic compound	A compound resulting from the formation of an ionic bond; also called a salt.
rectilinear	in the form of a straight line.
marburg viruses	The Marburg virus attracted widespread press attention in April 2005 for an outbreak in Angola
viable count	Measurement of the concentration of live cells in a microbial population.
nucleating agent	See ice-nucleating agent.
recombinants	Fraction of new combinations appearing in each generation.
endosymbiosis	When one organism takes up permanent residence within another, such that the two become a single functional organism
autophagy	A pathway for the recycling of cellular contents, in which materials inside the cell are packaged into vesicles and are then targeted to the vacuole or lysosome for bulk turnover.
array	For life sciences, an array is usually a series of spots of a collection of molecules that are arranged on a membrane in a very specific pattern
ecto-parasite	one that is attached to the external surface of the host.
centimorgan	see genetic map distance
metamorphic rock	Any rock derived from other rocks by chemical, mineralogical and structural changes resulting from pressure, temperature or shearing stress.
eutrophication	A process in which an aquatic environment accumulates high nutrient levels due to factors such as industrial or urban pollution or run-off of fertilizers from nearby agricultural lands
bioreactor	A container used for fermentation or enzymatic reactions
chimeric protein	A hybrid protein produced by recombinant DNA technology from a chimeric DNA molecule.
rigid	inflexible: holding a direct course.
dna methylase	An enzyme that catalyzes the addition of methyl groups to DNA.
biopterin	An enzymatic cofactor derived from pterin and involved in certain oxidation-reduction reactions.
image processing	Computer treatment of images gained from microscopy that reveal information not immediately visible to the eye.
mutagen	Something in the environment that causes mutations.
stenothorax	a supposed ring between pro- and meso-thorax.
atomic number	number of protons in an atom of that element
newton’s law of cooling	A common, although not necessarily historically defensible, synonym for the linear heat transfer equation.
sociobiology	The branch of biology that studies the evolutionary basis of social behavior.
circulation	The pressure-driven mass flow of blood through a system of tubular vessels or other passages that brings the blood to all parts of the body.
biostratinomy	The study of what happens between the death of an organism and burial
subtile -is	slightly; feebly; small; pretty; graceful.
gag	see glycosaminoglycan
ab	Antibody.
tidal volume	In an animal that exhibits tidal breathing, the amount of air inhaled and exhaled per breath.
mud	A defective derivative of phage Mu
deoxyriboside	/dee-AWKS-ee-RIGH-boh-side/ See: nucleoside.
entropy	randomness in position or energy level
quantum mechanics	A theory that explains the behavior of elementary particles, atoms, and energy in terms of probabilities.
glycosyltransferase	An enzyme that adds sugar residues to its substrate.
soil biochemistry	Branch of soil science concerned with enzymes and the reactions, activities, and products of soil microorganisms.
disulfide bond	Covalent linkage formed between two sulfhydryl groups on cysteines
heterocaryon	Cell with two or more genetically different nuclei; produced by the fusion of two or more different cells.
closed system	A system that exchanges neither matter nor energy with the surroundings
phylotype	A proposed stage in embryonic development that characterizes some basic features in the body plan of a phylum (for example, see Fig
landmark	A point of reference for orientation during navigation.
immunoprecipitation	Use of a specific antibody to draw the corresponding protein antigen out of solution
dalton	A unit of molecular mass approximately equal to the mass of a hydrogen atom.
shell	With reference to electrons the shell is an energy level
gabbro	Highly mafic igneous plutonic rock, typically dark in color; rough plutonic equivalent of basalt.
trna	See transfer RNA.
dalton	Unit of molecular mass approximately equal to the mass of a hydrogen atom (1.66 × 10−24 g).
anoxic	Literally "without oxygen." An adjective describing a microbial habitat devoid of oxygen.
ccctc binding factor	A transcriptional regulator that plays important roles in epigenetic control of gene expression
sericeous	silky: clothed with very dense minute hair which gives a silky lustre.
adc	AIDS Dementia Complex
murinus	mouse colored [gray with some yellow].
caudula -ae	a little tail.
cd8	Co-receptor protein found on cytotoxic T cells that binds to class I MHC molecules outside the antigen-binding site.
mid-ocean gyres	Large areas in the center of the oceans where nutrients are scarce, resulting in "marine deserts."
sphingolipid	An amphipathic lipid with a sphingosine backbone to which are attached a long-chain fatty acid and a polar alcohol.
dextrad	extending or directed toward the right.
substrate	A chemical recognized by an enzyme.
subuliform	formed like an awl: = subulate.
category	In taxonomy, one of the ranks of classification (e.g., genus, family).
muton	Smallest unit of DNA in which a change can result in a mutation.
replicon fusion	The integration of one replicon into another to form a single replicon
dyne	/DINE/ n
molecular beacon	A single-stranded DNA molecule with a fluorescent reporter group on one end and fluorescence quencher on the other
social cognition	The ability of an animal to forecast how its own actions will affect its future relationships within a social group
pyramid of energy	A diagram of the energy flow between the trophic levels of an ecosystem; plants or other autotrophs (at the base of the pyramid) represent the greatest amount of energy, herbivores next, then primary carnivores, secondary carnivores, etc.
urosternite	the sternal or under piece of the uromeres.
countertransporter	A transporter protein that obligatorily carries two different solutes in opposite directions simultaneously
progoneate	with the genital opening on an anterior body segment.
recyclable product	product that can be recycled
cofactor	A metal ion or a coenzyme that assists an enzyme in catalysis by acceoting or donating electrons or functional groups.
culture dish	The plastic dishes used in laboratories on which animal and human cell lines are allowed to grow.
transition state	An activated form of a molecule in which the molecule has undergone a partial chemical reaction; the highest point on the reaction coordinate.
potable water	water that is fit for human consumption
gene splicing	The cutting and rejoining of DNA sequences.
molecular replacement	A method for solving biomacromolecular structure based on the use of a model derived from a related, previously solved structure.
dilute	thinned out: applied to color means weak or pale.
infra-oesophageal	situated below oesophagus; see sub-oesophageal.
red queen hypothesis	Named for Lewis Carroll.s character who runs continually in order to stay in the same place
density-gradient centrifugation	Separation of molecules and particles on the basis of buoyant density, by centrifugation in a concentrated sucrose or caesium chloride solution.
cheek teeth	Mammalian premolar and molar teeth.
soil organic matter	Organic fraction of the soil exclusive of undecayed plant and animal residues
total homocysteine	The sum of all forms of homocysteine, usually measured from blood plasma.
reduction half-reaction	type of chemical equation that shows the reactant that gains electrons
monochromatic	of one color throughout.
cell membrane	the part of the cell which separates the external environment from the cytoplasm; cell membranes have hydrophilic external surfaces and hydrophobic interiors.
nonpolar covalent bond	A type of covalent bond in which electrons are shared equally between two atoms of similar electronegativity.
hepaticolor	liver-brown [dragon's blood].
red blood cell	see erythrocyte
downstream	In the direction of the 3' end of a DNA strand.
anabolism	Used to describe a process that builds up larger molecules from smaller molecules
f+ cell	A cell that carries a F-factor as an autonomous plasmid, which enables the cell acting as a donor (male) to transfer the F-factor to a recipient (female) cell.
transductant	A genetic recombinant formed by transduction.
hypotonia	A condition of diminished tone of the skeletal muscles, and the reduced resistance of muscles to passive stretching.
multilocular	with several to many internal spore-producing cavities or chambers.
organelles	One of several formed bodies with specialized functions, suspended in the cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells.
lysosome	Eukaryotic organelle which carries digestive enzymes
iteration	A single round of data processing
hydrophobic	Compounds such as lipids that do not readily interact with water but tend to dissolve in organic solvents.
unicellular	term used to describe an organism that consists of one cell.
curation	The process of verifying and enhancing data submitted to bioinformatics databases
giga-	Prefix denoting 109
bidentate	two-toothed.
trinucleotide repeat	Another term for triplet repeat.
plastidome	The total plastid complement of a cell.
thermocline	A narrow stratum of rapid temperature change in the ocean and in many temperate-zone lakes.
microaerophilic	Requiring oxygen but at a level lower than atmospheric.
fermenter	An organism which carries out the process of fermentation.
flavins	A group of molecules with a unique ring structure
ecosystem ecology	The study of all organisms living in a particular area as well as the nonliving, physical components with which they interact such as air, soil, water and sunlight.
intein	The internal protein sequence that is excised during protein splicing.
heat	The energy that matter possesses by virtue of the ceaseless, random motions that all of the atoms and molecules of which it is composed undergo on an atomic-molecular scale of distance
neanic	referring to the pupal stage.
extraembryonic membranes	Four membranes (yolk sac, amnion, chorion, allantois) that support the developing embryo in reptiles, birds, and mammals.
association study	A case-control study in which genetic variation, often measured as single-nucleotide polymorphisms that form haplotypes, is compared between people with a particular condition and unaffected individuals.
ingested energy	The energy present in the chemical bonds of an animal’s food.
zoned reserve	An extensive region of land that includes one or more areas undisturbed by humans surrounded by lands that have been changed by human activity and are used for economic gain.
western blotting	Process by which protein is transferred from a gel to a solid support such as a nitrocellulose or nylon filter.
systematics	Biological classification and nomenclature.
denticles	/DENT-ə-kəls/ n
porphyrin	A porphin derivatives in which the pyrrole beta-carbons are variously substitued
nuclein	Mixture of nucleic acids and protein, originally isolated from white blood cells.
cooperativity	Property exhibited by some proteins with multiple ligand-binding sites whereby binding of one ligand molecule increases (positive cooperativity) or decreases (negative cooperativity) the binding affinity of successive ligand molecules.
euplexoptera	with beautifully folded wings: an ordinal term applied to the ear-wigs.
amphoteric	Describes a molecule that reacts as an acid with bases, and as a base with acids.
species isolating mechanisms	(Reproductive Isolating Mechanisms) Diverging behaviors, physical attributes, or habitat preferences found in closely related species that have the effect of preventing mating and or the production of offspring
founder effect	The principle that the founders of a new population carry only a fraction of the total genetic variation in the source population.
autoradiography	A technique for imaging an object which has been radiolabeled, by exposing a photographic film to the object itself
dermal	relating to the skin or outer covering.
minocycline	An antibiotic commonly used to treat arthritis and acne
substrate	Molecule that undergoes a change in a reaction catalyzed by an enzyme.
insertion mutation	A mutation caused by insertion of one or more extra bases, or a mutagen, between two successive bases in DNA.
confocal microscopy	A light microscope technique that constructs an image from information derived from point-by-point scanning of a field.
drosophila	The common fruit-fly, whose full name is Drosophila Melanogaster, is often used as an animal model in scientific experiments.
degrees of freedom	Number of independent parameters required to describe some component
anaerogenic	without forming gas, e.g., anaerogenic 4fermentation.
pioneer community	A community composed of the initial inhabitants (early seral stage).
population	A group of individuals of one species that live in a particular geographic area.
visible light	That portion of the electromagnetic spectrum detected as various colors by the human eye, ranging in wavelength from about 380 nm to about 750 nm.
haworth perspective formulas	A method for representing cyclic chemical structures so as to define the configuration of each substituent group; the method commonly used for representing sugars.
fossulet	an elongated, shallow groove.
carcinogen	A substance which causes the initiation of tumor formation
latent heat	Heat that is stored by a particular substance
nitrogen cycle	Worldwide circulation and reutilization of nitrogen atoms, chiefly due to metabolic processes of living organisms; plants take up inorganic nitrogen and convert it into organic compounds (chiefly proteins), which are assimilated into the bodies of one or more animals; bacterial and fungal action on nitrogenous waste products and dead organisms return nitrogen atoms to the inorganic state.
phage display	Technique for detecting proteins that interact with each other by screening a protein against a library of genetically modified phage, each displaying a potential binding protein on their surface.
antibiotic	One of many different organic compounds that are formed and secreted by various species of microorganisms and plants, are toxic to other species, and presumably have a defensive function.
lymphatic system	A system of vessels and lymph nodes, separate from the circulatory system, that returns fluid, proteins, and cells to the blood.
nomenclature	The system of having two names (genus and specific epithet, also called Latin binomial) for each organism.
heterologous	(i) DNA regions coding for the same function but with differences in their nucleotide sequences; (ii) DNAs which originate from different species.
phospholipids	The major class of lipids present in biomembranes, usually composed of two fatty acid chains esterified to two of the carbons of glycerol phosphate, with the phosphate esterified to one of various polar groups
monosaccharides	The simplest carbohydrate, active alone or serving as a monomer for disaccharides and polysaccharides
dugong	/DOO-gawng/ n
megapascal	A unit of pressure equivalent to 10 atmospheres of pressure.
pachytene	Third stage of division I of meiosis, in which synapsis is complete.
short-term memory	The ability to hold information, anticipations, or goals for a time and then release them if they become irrelevant.
protein kinases	Enzymes that phosphorylate certain amino acid residues in specific proteins.
accommodation	The automatic adjustment of an eye to focus on near objects.
surfactant	an agent which reduces the surface tension of a liquid, e.g., detergents.
thiol	see sulfhydryl
chalceous	brassy in color or appearance.
thigmomorphogenesis	A response in plants to chronic mechanical stimulation, resulting from increased ethylene production; an example is thickening stems in response to strong winds.
environment	The complex of external conditions, abiotic and biotic, that affects organisms or populations
dna transposition	See transposition.
antimetabolite***	An antimetabolite is a structural analog of an intermediate (substrate or coenzyme) in a physiologically occurring metabolic pathway that acts by replacing the natural substrate thus blocking or diverting the biosynthesis of physiologically important substances.
dilated	widened, expanded.
synthetases	Enzymes that catalyze candensation reactions using ATP or another nucleoside triphosphate as an energy source.
abscess	Localized collection of pus in cavity formed by dissolution of tissue.
gill	An evagination of an animal’s body that serves as a respiratory surface.
reforming	process using heat, pressure, and catalysts to rearrange the atoms within molecules
sculptured	a surface, when marked with elevations or depressions or both, arranged in some definite manner.
dsdna	A double-stranded DNA molecule.
feelers	tactile organs: the term is usually applied to the antennae but sometimes to the palpi, as mouth-feelers.
messenger rna	A class of RNA molecules, each of which is complementary to one strand of DNA; carries the genetic message from the chromosome to the ribosomes.
fda	Food and Drug Administration
b lymphocyte	A type of lymphocyte that develops to maturity in the bone marrow
progeny test	Mating of an individual to obtain progeny for observation for the purpose of obtaining information about that individual's genotype or genetic merit.
carpels	The female reproductive structures of a
phytomelanin	a papery "sooty" black layer over the seed of plants in the Asparagales, which includes agaves, aloes, onions and hyacinths
blood pressure	The extent to which the pressure of the blood exceeds the ambient pressure.
clypeus posterior	see post-clypeus.
triglyceride	A fat-like substance found in the blood.
tertiary consumer	A member of a trophic level of an ecosystem consisting of carnivores that eat mainly other carnivores.
mutation rate	The rate at which observable changes occur in a DNA sequence.
halophile	An organism requiring salt (NaCl) for growth.
paramecium	unicellular pond animal with 'slipper-like' shape.
dropsy	/DRAWP-see/ n
endophyte	A microorganism living within plant vascular tissue.
mass action	The inherent tendency for the reactants and products of a chemical reaction to shift in their concentrations, by way of the reaction, until an equilibrium state—defined by particular concentration ratios—is achieved
spontaneous generation	An early concept that complex organisms can appear spontaneously from inert materials without biological parentage.
stochastic	Random.
generation time	The time it takes for a cell to double its mass under specified conditions.
maximal exercise	Exercise that requires an individual’s maximal rate of O2 consumption.
rnase	An enzyme that hydrolyses RNA molecules.
photoreactivation	DNA repair in which the damaged region is repaired with the help of light and an enzyme
perlate	beaded: bearing relieved, rounded points in series.
membrane potential	Voltage difference across a membrane due to the slight excess of positive ions (cations) on one side and negative ions (anions) on the other.
organism	Usually used to refer to an individual member of a species.
geologic province	n
cambium	KAM-bee-uhm/ The cylinder of undifferentiated embryonic tissue (meristem) that allows the stem of a plant to grow in diameter.
chemokine	Any of about 50 different proteins, secreted by many cell types near a site of injury or infection, that help direct migration of white blood cells to an injury site and induces other changes central to inflammation.
physical map	The linear order of genes and distance between them (usually expressed in base pairs or kilobases)
gene transcription	Another term for transcription.
permissive conditions	A particular environmental condition which allows the growth of an organism with a conditional mutation
hptn	HIV Prevention Trials Network
renaturation	The process of returning a denatured structure to its original native structure, as when two single strands of DNA are reunited to form a regular duplex, or an unfolded polypeptide chain is returned to its normal folded three-dimensional structure.
amplification plot	The graphical representation of changes in relative fluorescence units (RFU) per real-time PCR cycle.
hybrid vehicle	vehicle that combines conventional gasoline engines with battery technology
penicilliform	pencil-like or shaped.
citalopram	A drug used to treat depression associated with mood disorders
chondrosarcoma	KON-droh-sar-KOH-muh/ A sarcoma forming in bone cartilage (except "extraskeletal chondrosarcoma", which forms, not in bone cartilage, but in the soft tissues of the upper arms or legs)
laminar flow	Flow of a fluid without turbulence
fatty acid	Compound such as palmitic acid that has a carboxylic acid attached to a long hydrocarbon chain
heart	A discrete, localized structure specialized for pumping blood
passive restoration	Allowing natural succession to occur in an ecosystem after removing a source of disturbance.Â The recovery of the deciduous forests in the eastern United States after the abandonment of agriculture is a classic.
in vitro	Experiment performed in a test tube/laboratory apparatus
integral membrane proteins	Proteins firmly bound to a membrane by hydrophobic interactions; as distinct from peripheral proteins.
helix-turn-helix	A DNA-binding motif found in most bacterial DNA-binding proteins.
glycogenic	Describing amino acids whose metabolism may lead to gluconeogenesis.
resistance transfer factor	The component of an R-plasmid that encodes the ability to conjugate and to transfer DNA.
mega-	Prefix denoting 106
huntington gene	The section of DNA that codes for the huntingtin protein
wort	The filtrate of malted grains used as the substrate for the production of beer and ale by fermentation.
ethyl	Hydrophobic chemical group derived from ethane (CH3CH3).
swim bladder	An adaptation, derived from a lung, that enables bony fishes to adjust their density and thereby control their buoyancy.
correlation coefficient	Statistic that measures the degree of association between two or more variables
moniliform	beaded like a necklace.
optical tweezers	A laser-based technique that utilizes minute forces exerted by light waves to measure and to manipulate biomolecules.
specialized	(1) Of cells, having particular functions in a multicellular organism
light	Electromagnetic radiation, typically that which is visible to either our eyes or the eyes of other animals
antigen	A substance that triggers an immune response.
composite transposon	Type of transposable element in bacteria that consists of two insertion sequences flanking a segment of DNA.
leader sequence	An N-terminal signal sequence that directs secretion and processing of proteins.
catalyst	chemical substance that participates in a chemical reaction and influences its rate or speed without undergoing permanent change
armillate	with a ring or annulus of raised or different tissue.
herbivores	Animals that feed mainly on plants.
phenotype	The observable appearance of a trait or the overall appearance of an individual.
orc	see origin recognition complex
pallescent	becoming pale or light in color or tint.
fumate -us	smoky gray [gray].
sample	A collection of individuals or measurements obtained from a larger aggregate
homolactic fermentation	A type of lactic acid fermentation in which sugars (e.g
a form	A duplex DNA structure with right-handed twisting in which the planes of the base pairs are tilted about 70° with respect to the helix axis.
trans	Arrangement of two noncarbon atoms, each bound to one of the carbons in a carbon-carbon double bond, where the two noncarbon atoms are on opposite sides relative to the double bond.
acid mine drainage	The process to draw off acidic water from natural mine rich of sulfide minerals which has been oxidized to sulfuric acid by microbial actions.
nucleolus	A densely staining structure in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells; involved in rRNA synthesis and ribosome formation.
pericardial cavity	the space between the diaphragm and dorsal body wall, which contains the heart.
cotyledon	KOT-uh-LEE-duhn/ An embryonic seed leaf
transport proteins	Proteins found in the membranes of cells and organelles that are responsible for the movement of many substances into the cell or to the outside of the cell
signal patch	A recognition determinant formed by the three-dimensional folding of a polypeptide chain.
baenomere	a leg-bearing (thoracic) segment.
molecular structure	The size and shape of a molecule, determined by the atoms that make up the molecule
adduct	The covalent complex formed when a chemical binds a biomolecule, such as DNA or a protein.
upper median area	see areola.
population density	The number of individuals of a population per unit area or volume of living space.
habitat patchiness	Landscape spatial heterogeneity caused by spatial and temporal variation in the distribution and abundance of vital resources, as well as in geological and ecological processes.
maximum reaction velocity	The greatest rate at which an enzyme-catalyzed reaction can convert substrate to product with the number of active enzyme molecules that are present.
x-ray crystallography	Technique for determining the three-dimensional arrangement of atoms in a molecule based on the diffraction pattern of X-rays passing through a crystal of the molecule.
producer	Any organism which brings energy into an ecosystem from inorganic sources
antigen	Molecule that is able to provoke an immune response.
benthic	Inhabiting the bottom, or substrate, of a body of water.
stomata	Openings in the epidermis of a stem or leaf of a plant which permit gas exchange with the air
zinc finger	Several types of conserved DNA-binding motifs composed of protein domains folded around a zinc ion; present in several types of eukaryotic transcription factors
mutualism	A relationship among different species in which the participants benefit.
pandemic	A worldwide epidemic.
ontogeny	Individual development.
data logger	A small microcomputer with a large amount of memory that can be placed in or on an animal to collect and store time-labeled information on physiological or behavioral variables
alpha-hemolysis	Reduction of hemoglobin to methemoglobin.
cephalad	toward the head, along the central line of the body.
emigration	The movement of individuals out of a population.
protein	A linear biomacromolecule synthesized by ribosomes and consisting of a chain of amino acids in peptide linkage
granulose	roughened with granules or made up of distinct grains.
fasta	An algorithm for identifying sequence similarities.
rda	AI, UL, EAR), each with a specific use in defining recommended dietary intake levels for individual nutrients in the U.S
huntington's disease	A hereditary neurological disorder characterized by movement, cognitive, and psychiatric symptoms.
anti-hypertensive drugs	Drugs that reduce blood pressure.
percurrent	running through the entire length.
cerebral spinal tap	A medical procedure to insert a needle into the spinal cord and collect spinal fluid
model organism	A species, such as Drosophila melanogaster or Escherichia coli, that has been studied intensively over a long period and thus serves as a “model” of the biology of a particular type of organism.
first law of thermodynamics	The first law of thermodynamics states that the total energy is a closed system is fixed
monoculture	Cultivation of large land areas with a single plant variety.
hft lysate	A lysate from a lysogenic phage that includes a substantial proportion of transducing fragments
dispersal	/də-SPER-səl/ n
biotechnology	The industrial use of living organisms or their components to improve human health and food production.
preconsumer content	waste left over from the manufacturing process itself, such as scraps and clipping
suppressor mutation	A mutation that totally or partially restores a function lost by a primary mutation; located at a site different from the site of the primary mutation.
base analog	Compound similar enough to bases in DNA that it can be used in synthesis of DNA.
electron shell	An energy level represented as the distance of an electron from the nucleus of an atom.
river	A flowing body of water.
dna ligase	Enzyme which catalyzes the formation of a phosphodiester bond between the 3'-OH end and the 5'-P end of a DNA molecule.
anomers	Two stereoisomers of a given sugar that differ only in the configuration about the carbonyl (anomeric) carbon atom.
osculant	intermediate in character between two groups or series.
chiral compound	A compound that contains an asymmetric center (chiral atom or chiral center) and thus can occur in two nonsuperimposable mirror-image forms (enantiomers).
lotka-volterra models	Simple model that tells us that predator and prey interactions have the potential to cause population cycles, and is useful in understanding and predicting predator-prey population cycles
all-or-none	A reaction or response that occurs fully or not at all.
aerobic	Requiring or occurring in the presence of oxygen.
toxins	Proteins produced by some organisms and toxic to certain other species.
upwelling	The raising of benthic nutrients to the surface waters
membrane transport protein	Membrane protein that mediates the passage of ions or molecules across a membrane
drug target	A molecule that can be expected to enhance or inhibit a disease.
phase ii clinical trial	The second in a series of studies that test the safety and efficacy of a new drug or treatment in human participants and is only performed once the drug has successfully passed the phase I clinical trial
hormone	In multicellular organisms, one of many types of circulating chemical signals that are formed in specialized cells, travel in body fluids, and act on specific target cells to change their functioning
electron	A negatively charged particle; one of the three basic kinds of particles that make up an atom
sensim	gradually.
sub-clavate	somewhat thickened toward tip; but not quite club- shaped.
nutrient cycling	The cycling of nutrients between organisms and the physical environment.
dihommogamma-linoleic acid	An omega-6 fatty acid that can be converted into arachidonic acid (AA).
genotype	The genetic makeup of an organism
calathiform	shaped like a deep bowl.
family selection	Selection scheme in which whole families are selected.
araneiform	spider-like in appearance.
sagittate	shaped like an arrow head: elongate triangular.
compound	A substance consisting of two or more elements in a fixed ratio.
trochiformis	cylindro-conic.
point mutation	A mutation in which a single base pair in the DNA strand is replaced by a different base pair.
accole	Early ring form of Plasmodium falciparum found at margin of red cell.
synapse	The chemical connection for communication between two nerve cells or between a nerve cell and a target cell such as a muscle cell.
secondary metabolism	see METABOLISM.
lutose -us	apparently or really covered with dirt.
middle lamella	pectin-rich layer between the walls of adjacent plant cells; this layer is attacked and dissolved by damping-off fungi.
transfer spores	(of rust fungi) see AECIOSPORES.
complementary	Having a molecular surface with chemical groups arranged to interact specifically with chemical groups on another molecule.
patchiness	Localized variation in environmental conditions within an ecosystem, arranged spatially into a complex of discrete areas that may be characterized by distinctive groups of species or ecosystem processes.
chargaff's rules	observation that in every species, the percent of adenine almost exactly equals the percent of thymine
model	A representation of a theory or process.
salt lick	n
environmental deviation	The difference between the phenotypic and genotypic values caused by the environment.
acritarchs	Single-celled eukaryote-type microfossils of Precambrian age whose biological relationships are uncertain.
aseptic	Refers to an operation performed in a sterile environment or using appropriate precautions (such as flaming pipettes) designed to prevent contamination through introduction of bacteria.
calvin cycle	Biochemical route of carbon dioxide fixation in many autotrophic organisms.
agarose	An uncharged polysaccharide purified from agar
alkene	Hydrocarbon with one or more carbon-carbon double bonds
sequence profile	A sequence pattern representation emerging from comparison of multiple aligned sequences.
oxidative damage	The harmful condition that occurs when there is an excess of free radicals, a decrease in antioxidant levels, or both.
luciferin	compound whose activated form emits light.
ion	An atom that has either gained or lost electrons to acquire a charge; for example Na+ and Cl–.
bioinformatics	Science dealing with the classification, storage, retrieval and analysis of genomic and proteomic information; molecular modelling.
molecularity of a reaction	The number of molecules involved in a specific reaction step.
heat	A kind of kinetic energy carried by atoms or molecules in constant random motion
laminiform	layer-like: having the appearance or made up of lamina.
grassland	Region in which the climate is dry for long periods of the summer, and freezes in the winter
calorie	formerly defined as the amount of heat necessary to raise the temperature of exactly 1 g of water by 1°C
marker rescue	Repair of a mutational defect by recombination
module	In proteins or nucleic acids, a unit of structure or function that is found in a variety of different contexts in different molecules.
white blood cell	General name for all the nucleated blood cells lacking hemoglobin
pluri-dentate	with many teeth.
mobile	movable: having the power of motion.
pyramidal nerve cells	Nerve cells projecting from the motor cortex to other parts of the brain and spinal cord
ionizing radiation	A type of radiation, such as x rays, that causes loss of electrons from some organic molecules, thus making them more reactive.
wax-pincer	= wax cutter.
uric acid	A white, insoluble nitrogenous compound used to store or eliminate nitrogenous waste in birds and other egg laying organisms.
blue cheeses	cheeses ripened and flavoured by Penicillium roquefortii (Hyphomycetes), e.g., Roquefort, Stilton, Gorgonzola, Danish Blue.
ontogeny	n
retrospective	relating to a study (as of a disease) that starts with the present condition of a population of individuals and collects data about their past history to explain their present condition – compare to prospective
autocrine signaling	Type of cell signaling in which a cell secretes signal molecules that act on itself or on other adjacent cells of the same type.
allergic reaction	An inflammatory response triggered by a weak antigen (an allergen) to which most individuals do not react; involves the release of large amounts of histamine from mast cells.
transverse incision	= transverse sulci.
gustatory	elating to the sense of taste.
curie	unit of radioactivity, equal to 3.7 ×1010 disintegrations/s and roughly equivalent to the level of radioactivity from 1 g of radium
homologous chromosome	One of the two copies of a particular chromosome in a diploid cell, each copy being derived from a different parent.
micron	A unit of length equal to 10-6 meter.
evolutionary constraint	Any biological factor that slows the rate of adaptive evolution.
lineage	A series of ancestral and descendant populations through time; usually refers to a single evolving species, but may include several species descended from a common ancestor.
adult-onset	Referring to when the symptoms of the disease strike (onset) in adulthood (contrast with congenital)
herb	Generally any plant which does not produce wood, and is therefore not as large as a tree or shrub, is considered to be an herb.
signal patch	Protein sorting signal that consists of a specific three-dimensional arrangement of atoms on the folded protein’s surface.
assisted reproductive technology	Fertilization procedures that generally involve the surgical removal of eggs (secondary oocytes) from a woman's ovaries after hormonal stimulation, fertilizing the eggs, and returning them to the woman's body
selective sweep	Reduction or elimination of DNA sequence variation in the vicinity of a mutation that has been fixed by natural selection relatively recently.
sinistro-caudad	extending obliquely from the left toward the tail.
aglycon	The non-carbohydrate component of a glycoside.
ultraviolet radiation	Electromagnetic radiation in the region of 200 to 400 nm.
hip-1	huntingtin-interacting protein-1
vector transmission	Movement of a parasite from one host to another through an intermediate organism, the vector.
electricity	flow of electrons from one region to another that is driven by a difference in potential energy
citrine -us	lemon yellow [chrome yellow].
desolvation	In aqueous solution, the release of bound water surrounding a solute.
lignivorous	feeding upon wood or woody tissues.
manual spotting system	Microarrays can also be produced by manually spotting biomolecules onto glass slides
quantitative character	A character whose phenotype can be numerically measured or evaluated; a character displaying continuous variation.
wavenumbers	numbers often expressed in units of cm-1 and used on the x-axis of an infrared spectrum; inversely proportional to wavelength
glycosaminoglycan	A long, linear, highly charged polymer of a repeating disaccharide in which one member of the pair usually is a sugar acid (uronic acid) and the other is an amino sugar and many residues are sulfated
resistance exercise	Exercise that consists of relatively short periods of high-intensity muscular actions against a large load, often repeated with intervening interruptions
vitrification	process in which the spent fuel elements or other mixed waste from a nuclear reactor are encased in ceramic or glass
brackish	adj
phagocytosis	Process by which particulate material is endocytosed (“eaten”) by a cell
mole	The number of grams of a substance that equals its molecular weight in daltons and contains Avogadro's number of molecules.
habituation	A decline in organism’s response to a stimulus with repeated applications of the stimulus.
tryptic peptide mapping	The technique of generating a chromatographic profile characteristic of the fragments resulting from trypsin enzyme cleavage of the protein.
proculiform or poculiform	hollow, cylindrical, with a hemispherical base, the sides at top straight goblet-shaped.
genome	The term describes the total genetic information of a specific unit of inheritance such as e.g., the nucleus or the mitochondria.
atherosclerosis	A cardiovascular disease in which growths called plaques develop in the inner walls of the arteries, narrowing their inner diameters.
phosphatase	An enzyme that removes a phosphate group from a substrate by hydrolysis
amino group	An --NH2 group attached to a carbon skeleton as in the amines and amino acids.
genome	Total genetic information carried by a cell or organism.
activation energy	Minimum amount of energy required to start a reaction; enzyme action lowers this energy barrier
postmortem	Pertaining to the period after death
vector-borne diseases	Diseases in which the pathogenic microorganism is transmitted from an infected individual to another individual by an arthropod or other agent, sometimes with other animals serving as intermediary hosts
active immunity	Production of antibodies by the body's own im mune system due to the exposure to antigen
ginglymus	a hinge joint that permits flexion in one plane.
degenerate code	A code in which a single element in one language is specified by more than one element in a second language.
autotroph	A microorganism that synthesizes all organic molecules from inorganic sources.
recombinant dna	A molecule of DNA in which a DNA fragment from a different source has been inserted.
pepsinogen	The inactive form of pepsin that is first secreted by specialized (chiel) cells located in gastric pits of the stomach.
angiosperms	Flowering seed plants.
carbohydrate	General term for certain polyhydroxyaldehydes, polyhydroxyketones, or compounds derived from these usually having the formula (CH2O)n
induced fit	The change in shape of the active site of an enzyme so that it binds more snugly to the substrate, induced by entry of the substrate.
solution	A homogenous mixture of two or more substances.
parasitoid	Larval stage of an insect that consumes and eventually kills its host.
interneuron	A neuron that transmits information from at least one neuron to at least one other neuron
cell	Fundamental unit of living matter.
oils	triglycerides that are liquid at room temperature
host	(1) An organism on or in which a parasite lives
cosmology	Study of the structure and evolution of the universe.
caliciform	shaped like a cup or calyx.
aquifer	great pool of water trapped in sand and gravel 50–500 ft below the surface
pathogenic	Disease-causing.
second clypeus	see anteclypeus.
genetic research cycle	The process of learning about and developing treatments for genetic diseases
haploid	Having only one set of chromosomes, as in a sperm cell or a bacterium, as distinct from diploid (having two sets of chromosomes).
alkylating agent	An organic compound able to transfer an alkyl group to nucleotides.
metabolism	A network of enzyme-catalyzed reactions used by living organisms to maintain themselves.
glucose	A six carbon simple sugar(C6H12O6) commonly used as a source of energy by the organism
bicarbonate indicator	chemical that changes from red to yellow in the presence of relatively high concentration of carbon dioxide.
co-transport	Membrane transport process in which the transfer of one molecule depends on the simultaneous or sequential transfer of a second molecule.
cognitive	related to the mental processes of knowing, thinking, learning, and judging.
hartig net	the intercellular hyphal network formed by an ectomycorrhizal fungus in the surface layers of a root; the effective interface between the symboints.
cylindrical	in the form of a cylinder or tube; round, elongate, of equal diameter throughout.
pedigree index	Evaluation of an individuals genetic merit based solely on the genetic evaluations of its parents ( the average of parent evaluations).
semi-saggitate	like the longitudinal half of an arrow head.
linker	A synthetic, double-stranded oligonucleotide used to attach sticky ends to a blunt-ended molecule.
chargaff's rules	Rules developed by Erwin Chargaff and his colleagues concerning the ratios of bases in DNA.
analog	An analog is a drug whose structure is related to that of another drug but whose chemical and biological properties may be quite different
cell fusion	The formation of a single hybrid cell from two cells in response to treatment with a fusogen.
rifampicin	A compound that is believed to decrease the presence of beta-amyloid fibrils, but has little or no success in inhibiting huntingtin protein aggregation.
protamines	Highly basic, arginine-rich proteins found complexed to DNA in the sperm of many invertebrates and fish.
bioluminescence	Production of light by a chemical reaction within an organism
saturated fat	A type of fat found mainly in meats, butter, and dairy products which, due to its chemical structure, tends to pack very tightly and raise levels of unhealthy cholesterol.
compost	Organic residues which have been mixed, piled, and moistened, with or without addition of fertilizer and lime, and generally allowed to undergo thermophilic decomposition until the original organic materials are substantially altered or decomposed.
mismatch	A defect in the pairing of two complementary DNA sequences where a base in one strand is different from that expected according to complementarity with the other.
species selection	A theory maintaining that species living the longest and generating the greatest number of species determine the direction of major evolutionary trends.
anamnestic response	More rapid production of antibodies in response to exposure to an antigen previously encountered.
endoplasmic reticulum	An extensive membranous network in eukaryotic cells, continuous with the outer nuclear membrane and composed of ribosome-studded (rough) and ribosome-free (smooth) regions.
extensive property	An extensive property is one where the property is proportional to the size of the system
dispersive replication	Model of DNA replication in which the original and newly synthesized strands are distributed randomly between the parental and daughter cells.
systemic	Affecting the entire body rather than a single part.
basal metabolic rate	The rate of oxygen consumption by an animal's body at complete rest, long after a meal.
monomer	A building block of a polymer.
synoecy	the relation that exists between ants and those guests that are indifferent to and tolerated by them:= metochy, and see symphily and synecthry.
bar	a short, straight band of equal width.
pigment	any coloring matter or material that gives a color appearance
second law of thermodynamics	The law stating that in any chemical or physical process, the entropy of the universe tends to increase.
one hybrid system	A method for detecting protein-DNA interactions.
frozen accident	The concept that an accidental event in the distant past was responsible for the presence of a universal feature in living organisms
agarose	Nonsulfated linear polymer consisting of alternating residues of D-galactose and 3,6-anhydro-L-galactose
cleistogamy	kligh-STAW-guh-mee/ Self-pollination that occurs before the flower opens.
primary host	the principal host of heteroecious rust fungi, which bears the sexual phase (the teliospores); see ALTERNATE HOST.
green fluorescent protein	Fluorescent protein isolated from a jellyfish
teliomycetes	Class of basidiomycetes including the orders Uredinales and Ustilaginales
condensation	A change in the physical state of a compound from a gas to a liquid.
jak-stat signaling pathway	Rapid signaling pathway by which some extracellular signals (for example interferon) activate gene expression
ion	atom or group of atoms that has acquired a net electrical charge as a result of gaining or losing one or more electrons
saponification	Alkaline hydrolysis of triacylglycerols to yield fatty acids as soaps.
organ	A body structure composed of two or more tissues.
substrate	One of the initial reactants of an enzyme-catalyzed reaction.
ct	See threshold cycle.
rhizoid	Rootlike structure that helps to hold an organism to a substrate.
hansch analysis**	Hansch analysis is the investigation of the quantitative relationship between the biological activity of a series of compounds and their physicochemical substituent or global parameters representing hydrophobic, electronic, steric and other effects using multiple regression correlation methodology.
auditory	relating to the sense of hearing.
bulb	A modified bud with thickened leaves adapted for underground food storage.
embioptera	an ordinal term proposed for the Neuropterous family Embidae.
outgroup	A species or group of species that is closely related to the group of species being studied, but clearly not as closely related as any study-group members are to each other.
heteroduplex dna	Duplex DNA containing complementary strands derived
assay	Analytical procedure to determine purity, concentration, or biological activity of a specific substance in a mixture
character	A heritable feature.
zinc finger	DNA-binding structural motif present in many gene regulatory proteins
hormones	usually peptides or steroids, which are produced in one part of an organism and trigger specific rections in cells elsewhere.
hemoglobin	An iron-containing protein in red blood cells that reversibly binds oxygen.
gene	section of a chromosome which codes for a protein or RNA product.
chemoautotroph	An organism that can obtain the energy it needs to stay alive from energy-yielding inorganic chemical reactions.
liposome	Artificial phospholipid bilayer vesicle formed from an aqueous suspension of phospholipid molecules.
aminoacyl-trna	An aminoacyl ester of a tRNA.
glycolysis	This process occurs in all organisms, and is responsible for converting glucose to pyruvate and generating ATP in the process
deposition	/DEP-ə-ZISH-shən/ Accumulation by sedimentation, chemical precipitation, or evaporation of a suspending solute.
secondary antibody response	Antibody made upon second (subsequent) exposure to antigen; mostly of the class IgG.
azygos	unpaired; a structure without a fellow; sometimes applied to an unpaired oviduct specifically the enlarged portion of the vagina at the junction of the oviducts and thus = uterus.
fluorescence	The emission of light by an excited molecule in the process of making the transition from the excited state to the ground state.
helix breaker	An amino acid residue that interrupts alpha helical structure.
rhizobia	Bacteria capable of living symbiotically in roots of leguminous plants, from which they receive energy and often fix molecular dinitrogen
diurnal	A lifestyle characterized by activity during the dayrather than at night (nocturnal).
vocal cord	One of a pair of stringlike tissues in the larynx
research and development	The process involves the scientific discovery of a mutation, or a pathway or biological target responsible for the disease all the way through to the creation of a therapeutic treatment, such as a drug
phosphorolysis	Cleavage of a compound with phosphate as the attacking group; analogous to hydrolysis.
facial lipoatrophy	see Lipoatrophy.
in vitro	"In glass"; that is, in the test tube.
maternal half sib	Brother or sister having the same dam but different sires.
cambrian period	KAM-bree-uhn/ The most ancient (~543 to 488 mya) period of the Paleozoic Era
analytical model	A model in which the relationships among variables are defined using equations.
fat	Energy-storage lipid in cells
subsidence	n
ciliate	fringed: set with even, parallel hairs or soft bristles.
culture medium	See medium.
mineralcorticoids	Steroids released from the adrenal cortex that maintain salt and fluid balance in the body.
baltica	n
aseptic technique	Manipulating sterile instruments or culture media in such a way as to maintain sterility.
carbonaceous chondrites	Meteorites containing carbon compounds.
rod	A type of photoreceptor in the vertebrate retina
phenotype	The appearance or other observable characteristics of an organism
chemotaxis	A cell's sensing of and movement toward, or away from, a specific chemical agent.
schizophrenia	a psychiatric disorder that usually involves problems with perceptions or expressions of reality, significant social or occupational problems, disorganized thinking, and delusions or hallucinations.
biomass	general term for plant matter such as trees, grasses, agricultural crops or other biological material
trisomic	Diploid organism possessing an extra (third) copy of a chromosome.
enrichment culture	Use of selective culture media and incubation conditions to isolate microorganisms directly from nature.
ovulation	Release of an egg from the ovary.
sodium butyrate	An HDAC inhibitor.
mitogen-activated protein kinase	An enzyme that is involved in numerous aspects of signal transduction.
eusocial	Groups that display each of the following three traits: cooperative care of young; non-reproducing worker castes; and an overlap of at least two generations of life stages capable of contributing to colony labor.
synapsid	n
campodeiform	applied to larval forms which, in their early stages at least, resemble Campodea: = leptitorm.
basal	at or pertaining to the base or point of attachment to or nearest the main body.
purines	A class of nitrogenous compounds containing two fused heterocyclic rings
x-ray	An energy beam of very short wavelengths (0.1 to 1000 Å) produced by the bombardment of various materials with high velocity electrons.
bloom	a fine violet dusting similar to that on plums
beta oxidation	The process by which fats, in the form of Acyl-CoA molecules, are broken down in the mitochondria to generate Acetyl-CoA, the entry molecule for the Krebs Cycle.
biochip	Miniaturised substrates onto which a large number of biomolecules are attached with high density and in a defined microarray.
apomixis	The asexual production of seeds.
doubly labeled water method	A method used to measure the metabolic rate of a free-living animal in which water labeled with unusual isotopes of hydrogen and oxygen is injected into the animal
distomer	A distomer is the enantiomer of a chiral compound that is the less potent for a particular action
law of mass action	The finding that the rate of a chemical reaction is a function of the product of the concentrations of the reacting species.
histones	Proteins that play a part in the regulation of gene transcription by helping to condense DNA into its compact form as chromosomes.
heritability	In a general sense, the degree to which  - variations in the phenotype of a character are caused by genetic differences; traits with high heritabilities can be more easily modified by selection than traits with low heritabilities
crassulacean acid metabolism	A process by which some species of plants in hot, dry climates take in carbon dioxide during the night, fixing it in organic acids; the carbon dioxide is released during the day and used immediately in the Calvin cycle.
heat	The total amount of kinetic energy due to molecular motion in a body of matter
macula	In the vertebrate ear, a sensory area in the vestibular organs containing hair cells that monitor tilt and acceleration of the head.
alpha particle	positively charged (2+) particle consisting of two protons and two neutrons (the nucleus of a helium atom)
family	A taxonomic category that stands between order and genus; an order may comprise a number of families, each of which contains a number of genera.
dna polymerase	Enzyme that catalyzes the production of DNA.
k	see equilibrium constant
site-specific recombination	Type of recombination that does not require extensive similarity in the two DNA sequences undergoing recombination
basal metabolic rate	The BMR is the number of calories a person needs to perform normal bodily functions all day long.
acidosis	A state in which the pH of the body fluids is excessively acid.
hydroxyl groups	A functional group consisting of a hydrogen atom joined to an oxygen atom by a polar covalent bond
allosteric protein	Protein that changes from one conformation to another when it binds another molecule or when it is covalently modified
critical mass	amount of fissionable fuel required to sustain an atomic chain reaction
organ	a fully differentiated structural and functional unit in an animal that is specialized for some particular function
theta-replication	Replication of a circular molecule of double-stranded DNA by initiation at a unique origin and proceeding in one or both directions around the molecule
coprolites	Fossilized feces
molecular mimics	Chemical compounds that resemble biomolecules and recognize and bind their targets.
taxonomy	The classification of organisms.
epistatic effect	Sum of effects due to combinations of alleles at different loci interacting to influence the trait of interest.
aerotolerant	Used to describe an anaerobe which will not be inhibited by oxygen and can still grow at sub-optimal rates.
anaerobic	Referring to a cell, organism, or metabolic process that functions in the absence of O2.
colonoscopy	examination of the colon through a flexible, lighted instrument called a colonoscope.
chemiluminescence	The production of light by a chemical reaction.
dsmb	Data Safety and Monitoring Board
nocturnal	species that fly or are active at night.
covalent bond	a chemical bond in which two electrons are shared by the atoms involved
rna	Polymer formed from covalently linked ribonucleotide monomers
silent mutation	A point mutation that has no effect on the organism involved.
epstein-barr virus	A herpes virus that causes mononucleosis.
fdc	Follicular Dendritic Cells
aposematic	Coloration or other features that advertise noxious properties; warning coloration.
lacunae	irregular impressions or cavities: specifically the non-walled cavities of the body.
inducers	Molecules that cause an increase in a protein activity when added to cells.
steady state	A nonequilibrium state of a system through which matter is flowing and in which all components remain at a constant concentration.
covalent modulation	Modulation of the catalytic properties of an enzyme, or the functional properties of another type of protein, by chemical reactions that make or break covalent bonds between a modulator and the enzyme or other modulated protein
confound	An extraneous variable that may influence the results of an experiment.
ingroup	In a cladistic study of evolutionary relationships among taxa of organisms, the group of taxa that is actually being analyzed.
amplification efficiency	A measure of how closely the majority of PCR cycles in a given run approximate perfect doubling of product
lagging strand	The DNA strand that, during replication, must be synthesized in the direction opposite to that in which the replication fork moves.
confocal microscope	A high-powered microscope used for visualizing extremely small cellular components with beams of fluorescent light.
futile cycle	See pseudocycle.
composition	The relative proportion of habitat types in the landscape, regardless of spatial distribution.
spermatophyte	A seed plant.
fertility	The number of live births per parent; the capacity to conceive and generate live offspring.
dehiscent	open or standing open: separating toward the tip.
defective virus	A virus that can reproduce only in the presence of another, so-called helper virus, that carries the genes necessary for the replication of the defective virus.
polycystic kidney disease	A kidney disorder passed down through families in which multiple cysts form on the kidneys, causing them to become enlarged.
sarcoma	a type of cancer that starts in bone or muscle.
krebs cycle	See citric acid cycle.
reservoir	a case or cavity for the storage of any fluid or secretion.
aspiration pneumonia	occurs when a person inhales food into their respiratory tract
linkage	Tendency for some parental alleles to be inherited together (opp
upstream	In the 5' direction from a given transcription start point.
diploblastic	/DIP-loe-BLAST-ik/ adj
o-linked glycosylation	Addition of an oligosaccharide chain to a protein through the OH group of a serine or threonine side chain.
antagonist	A term that is commonly used to refer broadly to neutral antagonists, weak partial agonists and inverse agonists.
monomer	In protein biochemistry, a monomer is a single folded polypeptide chain
interspecies hydrogen transfer	The process in which organic matter is degraded anaerobically by the interaction of several groups of microorganisms in which hydrogen production and hydrogen consumption are closely coupled among species.
spontaneous mutation	Mutation which occurs naturally, as a result of damage to DNA.
symbiont hypothesis	The concept that mitochondria are the descendants of bacteria that once lived as symbionts within eukaryotic cells.
red blood cells	Cells specialized for oxygen transport, having a high concentration of hemoglobin (oxygen-carrying protein) in the cytoplasm.
nonautonomous element	Transposable element that cannot transpose on its own but can transpose in the presence of an autonomous element of the same family.
cultrate -iform	shaped like a pruning knife.
orogeny	n
primary production	elaboration of complex, energy-rich organic compounds by photosynthetic organisms
turbidity flow	n
metamorphosis	A change of form, especially the conversion of a larval form to an adult form.
bioassay	An assay that uses a living system, such as an intact cell, as a component.
unconformity	Any interruption of the continuity of a depositional sequence.
protolog	the original description by words.
biomanipulation	A technique for restoring eutrophic lakes that reduces populations of algae by manipulating the higher-level consumers in the community rather than by changing nutrient levels or adding chemical treatments.
inflated	blown up; distended bladder-like.
coccus	Spherical bacterial cells.
trans fats	fats that have been transformed by the addition of hydrogen to unsaturated vegetable oils
toxin	A microbial substance able to induce host damage.
symbiosis	n
pkc	see protein kinase C
protein domain	Region of a protein that has a specific shape or function.
wax	A lipid consisting of long chain fatty acids
ample	broad; large; sufficient in size.
stoichiometry	The rate at which many organisms use energy by respiration can be measured by the rate at which they consume oxygen.
plasmid	An extrachromosomal, independently replicating, small circular DNA molecule; commonly employed in genetic engineering.
angulose	having angles.
hsp 40	The mouse analog of HDJ1.
x chromosome	The sex chromosome that exists in paired form in females.
hyperglycemia	High glucose levels in the blood.
genetics	Study of heredity.
lineolet	a delicate fine line.
motility	The property of movement of a cell under its own power.
palindrome	A segment of duplex DNA in which the base sequences of the two strands exhibit twofold rotational symmetry about an axis.
stylus	a small, pointed, non-articulated process.
fda 510 premarket notification	A premarket submission made to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to demonstrate that a device is at least as safe and effective (substantially equivalent) as a legally marketed device that is not the subject of a Premarket Approval (PMA).
ecology	The study of the relations between organisms and their environment, in terms of their numbers, distributions, and life cycles.
unique-sequence dna	Sequence present only once or a few times in a genome.
crossopterygians	A type of lobe-finned fish with lungs that were ancestral to
choanocyte	A flagellated feeding cell found in sponges
lava	Any molten material that is extrusive or volcanic, or the rock that forms from a molten extrusive.
bioluminescence	Fluorescent light formed when certain organisms convert chemical bond energy to photon energy,
antibody	A protein complex that specifically interacts with an antigen.
concentrated	gathered together at one point; intensified or strengthened by evaporation.
immersed -us	inserted, imbedded or hidden in.
preformed water	Water that enters the body in the form of H2O
family	a division of classification including a number of genera agreeing in one or a set of characters and so closely related that they are apparently descended from one stem: opinionative and indicated by the termination idae.
lft	Liver Function Test
polycythemia	A state of having an unusually high concentration of red blood cells in the blood; seen, for example, in humans and some other lowland mammals when they acclimatize to high altitudes.
truncature	the truncation or point squarely cut off.
fibrillar collagen	Type of collagen molecule which assembles into rope-like structures
van der waals forces	Refers to the combined effect of two types of interactions, one attractive and one repulsive
multicellular	Any organism which is composed of many cells is termed multicellular.
mineral	In nutrition, a chemical element other than hydrogen, oxygen, or nitrogen that an organism requires for proper body functioning.
adme	Abbreviation for Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, Excretion
monsoon	n
phosphate	An important functional group consisting of a phosphorus atom and three oxygen’s.
terminus	The region of DNA sequences where DNA replication terminates.
diagenesis	n
rotule	the trochantine.
pharming	The production of large quantities of useful proteins by transgenic animals or plants.
methanogen	A methane-producing prokaryote; member of the Archaea.
wings of the heart	the series of diagonal and other muscular fibres above the diaphragm in the pericardial cavity: see pericardial diaphragm.
arteriosclerosis	Any of a group of diseases leading to the thickening and loss of elasticity in arterial walls.
mutation	The genetically inheritable alteration of a gene or group of genes.
permeable	The property of allowing material to pass through, as a permeable membrane.
dna supercoiling	Additional twisting of the DNA helix that occurs in response to the superhelical tension created when, for example, a circular DNA is partly unwound (See Figure 6–20.)
optical activity	The property of a molecule that leads to rotation of the plane of polarization of plane-polarized light when the latter is transmitted through the substance
per-	as a prefix, means very: extremely: through.
cotransport	The coupling of the "downhill" diffusion of one substance to the "uphill" transport of another against its own concentration gradient.
aerobic	Pertaining to the presence of free oxygen
amphoteric	Capable of donating and accepting protons, thus able to serve as an acid or a base.
pepsin	An enzyme in the stomach that digests proteins down to the level of small polypeptides
freely permeable	term used to describe a structure (e.g
termination factor	One of several proteins that acts to terminate protein synthesis by recognizing a stop codon in mRNA and causing release of the ribosomal subunits
fission	Division of single-celled organisms, especially prokaryotes, in which mitosis does not occur
porphyrin	A complex planar structure containing four substituted pyrroles covalently joined in a ring and frequently containing a central metal atom
feedback inhibition	See end-product inhibition.
cell lineage	The ancestry of a cell.
ambulatorial	fitted for walking or making progress on the surface.
o-antigen	The arrangement of polysaccharide side chains on the LPS of Gram-negative bacteria
microreactor	A minitiarized reaction system used for chemical synthesis.
standards	A group of reference points with known properties
creation	Creationist term for the beginning when God created the earth and the universe
charge-transition-state analogues	A structural mimic of the transition state between reactant(s) and product(s) for a given reaction
annotation	Analysis and commentary added to sequence data in databases
polyploidy	Variations in which the number of chromosome sets (n) is greater than the diploid number (2n)
tauroursodeoxycholic acid	An acid found in large quantities in bear bile and small amounts in human bile
puromycin	An antibiotic that inhibits polypeptide synthesis by being incorporated into a growing polypeptide chain, causing its premature termination.
infection	Growth of an organism within the body.
polylinker	A short, often synthetic, fragment of DNA containing recognition sequences for several restriction endonucleases.
sterile	Free of living organisms and viruses.
free radical	unstable chemical species with one or more unpaired electrons
metric character	Characteristics that are measures not counts (e.g., height of an individual)
r&d pipeline	See research and development
bile salt	A type of emulsifying compound, produced by the biliary system in the liver of a vertebrate, that plays a key role in lipid digestion and absorption because of its ability to emulsify lipids within the gut lumen.
resolution	The minimum distance that can be distinguished by an optical apparatus; also called resolving power.
law of mass action	The law stating that the rate of any given chemical reaction is proportional to the product of the activities (or concentrations) of the reactants.
ethologists	Scientists who study animal behavior.
laciniated	jagged; cut into irregular fragments.
preadaptation	A character that was adaptive under a prior set of conditions and later provides the initial stage (is "co-opted") for the evolution of a new adaptation under a different set of conditions.
lytic infection	A virus infection that leads to the Iysis of the host cell, yielding progeny virus particles.
optic chiasm	The arrangement of the nerve tracts of the eye such that the visual sensations from the left visual field of both eyes are transmitted to the right side of the brain and the sensations from the right visual field of both eyes are transmitted to the left side of the brain.
celastrol	A natural molecule derived from the celastracaeae plant
supercoiled dna	Supertwisted, covalently-closed duplex DNA.
haldane relationship	When considering reversible enzyme catalyzed reactions, the Haldane relationship describes the relation between the equilibrium constant of the reaction and the forward and reverse kinetic constants, and .For a single substrate, single product reversible reaction, the Haldane relationship is given by:
sanitization	Elimination of pathogenic or deleterious organisms, insect larvae, intestinal parasites, and weed seeds.
decomposers	See: saprophyte.
composite transposon	A transposible element flanked by two copies of an IS element.
bipedal	A term used mostly to describe terrestrial tetrapod locomotion that is restricted to the hind limbs when these two limbs move alternately (for example, human walking) rather than together (for example, kangaroo jumping).
morphogen	A molecule that specifies cell identity during development as a function of its concentration.
lysosome	Membrane delimited cytoplasmic organelle of eukaryotic cells containing acid hydrolases maintained at a pH of about 5.0.
surface tension	The tendency of water to behave is if it is covered by a semi-rigid film.
masticatory	formed for chewing or grinding; applied to the mouth parts and to the grinding structures in the gizzard.
standard free-energy change	Free-energy change of two reacting molecules at standard temperature and pressure when all components are present at a concentration of 1 mole per liter.
neogeic	belonging to the Western Hemisphere or New World: see gerontogeic.
geomorphology	The study of landforms and the geological processes that shape them.
g2/m checkpoint	Important point in the cell cycle near the end of G2
deer truffle	Elaphomyces (Elaphomycetales, Ascomycetes).
clonus	KLONE-uhs/ Involuntary, sudden, and alternating contraction and relaxation of a muscle or group of muscles.
autoregulation	See autogenous regulation.
anemophily	Seed plants which are pollinated by wind are said to be anemophilous.
electron microscope	Type of microscope that uses a beam of electrons to create the image.
halophyte	A plant that roots in saline soils, often characterized by high salt concentrations in its tissue fluids.
adduction	Movement of an appendage or body part toward the midline (median sagittal) plane, for example, bringing a laterally extended arm to the side of the body.
pathogen	A pathogen is a disease causing organism or virus
peroxisomes	generate and degrade H2O2 in performing various metabolic functions transfer hydrogen from various substrates to oxygen and they produce H2O2
indirect development	A life history consisting of a larval stage between embryo and adult stages.
glycoform	A glycoprotein variant that differs in the oligosaccharide moiety.
vitamin b11	Another name for folic acid.
modification	The specific addition of secondary residues (methyl, hydroxymethyl, glucosyl) to deoxyribonucleotides by an organism to differentiate its own DNA from other DNA or for regulatory purposes.
leukemia	cancer that begins in developing blood cells in the bone marrow.
negative staining	Staining technique for use in the electron electron microscope in which a reverse, or negative, image of the object is created.
equitant	laminated: folding one upon the other.
secondary productivity	he rate at which all the heterotrophs in an ecosystem incorporate organic material into new biomass, which can be equated to chemical energy.
site-specific recombination	Genetic exchange that occurs between particular, short DNA sequences
bile	A mixture of substances that is produced in the liver, stored in the gallbladder, and acts as a detergent to aid in the digestion and absorption of fats.
genomic microarray	Technology that allows the assessment of multiple gene targets for the identification of gene amplifications or deletions in a different samples.
samhsa	Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration
ascorbate	A negatively charged form of ascorbic acid, or vitamin C
dichotomous	forked: dividing by pairs.
molar solution	One mole of solute dissolved in water to give a total volume of 1,000 mL.
cellulose	A polysaccharide
cbp	Abbreviation for CREB-binding protein.
difference spectra	Plots comparing the absorption spectra of a molecule or an assembly of molecules in different states, for example, those of mitochondria under oxidizing or reducing conditions.
zymogen	An inactive enzyme precursor that is activated by proteolysis; a proenzyme.
bacillus	Bacterium with an elongated, rod shape.
coagulate	to congeal; to change from a fluid to a jelly.
gradualist model	The idea that species arise from pre-existing species by means of a set of slow evolutionary transitions from one form to another.
duplicate -us	double.
acquired immunological tolerance	Unresponsiveness of the immune system to a given foreign antigen that can develop in some circumstances.
ribosome	An RNA-protein complex responsible for the correct positioning of mRNA and charged tRNAs allowing proper alignment of amino acids during protein synthesis.
conjugate	A related substance, differing only slightly.
disinfectant	An agent that kills microorganisms, but may be harmful to human tissue.
diotic	/die-AWT-ick/ adj
group	vertical column in the periodic table
climate	The prevailing weather conditions at a locality
creb-binding protein	A transcriptional co-activator of phosphorylated CREB (Cyclic AMP Response Element Binding Factor).
phosphoprotein phosphatase	Enzyme that removes a phosphate group from a protein by hydrolysis.
wild-type	A strain used as a standard reference to compare any mutant derivatives
disequilibrium	State where genotypic frequencies at two or more loci considered jointly deviate from expected frequencies based on products of gene frequencies.
protamphibion	a name applied by P
turbidite	n
electrolytic cell	device in which electrical energy is converted to chemical energy
protein	A protein is a compound made from smaller molecules called amino acids
arp complex	Complex of proteins that nucleates actin filament growth from the minus end.
cooperative binding	A situation in which the binding of one ligand to a macromolecule favors the binding of another
resorption	(to resorb) – loss of bone through increased breakdown via osteoclasts or other mechanism causing a reduction in bone mass
bronchiole	One of the fine branches of the bronchus that transport air to alveoli.
cell	Fundamental structural unit of all life
spiral	rolled up like a watch spring, or twisted like a cork-screw
peritracheal	surrounding the trachea.
allosteric	Used to describe some protein, especially enzymes, in which a compound combine with a site on the protein other than the active site
gloger's rule	The generalization that warm-blooded (endothermic) animals tend to have more pigmentation in warm, humid areas than in cool, dry areas.
line-angle drawing	simplified version of a structural formula that is most useful for representing larger molecules
carboxyl group	-COOH
hydrophobic	having aversion to water tend to coalesce and form droplets of water
dna footprinting	Technique for determining the DNA sequence to which a DNA-binding protein binds.
cup fungus	a `discomycete' - any ascomycete with an open, shallow, cupulate apothecial ascoma; a hetergeneous grouping because the asci may be unitunicate operculate, unitunicate inoperculate, or in many lichens, bitunicate.
dolomite	A carbonate sedimentary rock composed of more than 50 percent of the mineral calcium-magnesium carbonate (CaMg(CO3)2).
gametic array	A method of describing in mathematical terms that the sum of the proportion of gametes that carries a specific allele is equal to 1
mitoplast	The mitochondrial inner membrane and matrix.
paleozoic	The first era of the Phanerozoic eon, extending from 545 to about 250 million years ago.
microarray	See DNA microarray.
hypothesis	A tentative answer to a well-framed question.
resilient	elastic; having the property of springing back.
circadian rhythms	Biorhythms that occur on a daily cycle.
adenine triphosphate	compound that stores energy in cells.
bioinformatics	Using computing power, software, and mathematical models to process and integrate biological information from large data sets.
horismology	see orismology.
fluorescence	Emission of light by excited molecules as they revert to the ground state.
transport proteins	Membrane protein that passively or actively assists specific ions or molecules into or out of a cell
corneous	of a horny or chitinous substance; resembling horn in texture.
retinoid	derivatives of vitamin A used clinically in the treatment of severe acne and psoriasis; under investigation for treating cancer
dacryorrhea	/dack-ree-oh-REE-ə/ n
rock tripe	rock-inhabiting lichens of the genus Umbilicaria.
ligation	The formation of a phosphodiester bond between two adjacent bases separated by a single-strand break
cleistothecium	Closed ascocarp of fungi in the phylum Ascomycota.
avidin	AKA streptavidin
flabelliform	fan-shaped.
amitriptyline	Amitriptyline hydrochloride is an antidepressant drug
polymer	A large molecule made up of repeating subunits, called monomers
physiological	Pertaining to physiology, the science of how living organisms function
blood-brain barrier	A specialized capillary arrangement in the brain that restricts the passage of most substances into the brain, thereby preventing dramatic fluctuations in the brain's environment.
function	The way in which a character contributes to the fitness of an organism.
limestone	A carbonate sedimentary rock composed of more than 50 percent of the mineral calcium carbonate (CaCO3).
gluconeogenesis	The production of sugars from nonsugar precursors such as lactate or amino acids
porose -us	with little round openings on the surface.
poly polymerase	An enzyme involved in a number of cellular processes including DNA repair and apoptosis.
translocon	Multiprotein complex in the membrane of the rough endoplasmic reticulum through which a nascent secretory protein enters the ER lumen as it is being synthesized
mitochondrial creatine kinase	A protein found in the mitochondria that exists in two forms
genotype	The genetic characteristics of an organism (distinguished from its observable characteristics, or phenotype).
diplotene	/DIP-low-teen/ n
wet lab	Refers to experiments performed at the lab bench.
dysmorphology	Altered development.
trace element	An element indispensable for life but required in extremely minute amounts.
allometric coeffient	(a) in the linear equation, log y = a log x + log b, the slope of the line.
transposition	Movement of a transposable genetic element from one site to another
reverse osmosis	purification process that uses pressure to force the movement of a solvent through a semipermeable membrane from a region of high solute concentration to a region of lower solute concentration
supercooling	Cooling of a solution to below its freezing point without freezing.
pregnancy rate	The percentage of females exposed (inseminated or receiving an embryo) that sustain the development of a fetus.
humoral	Contained in a bodily fluid.
evaporation	A change in the physical state of a compound from a liquid to a gas; most commonly used to refer to water
dermal tissue system	The protective covering of plants; generally a single layer of tightly packed epidermal cells covering young plant organs formed by primary growth.
phalerated	beaded.
neutral mutation	Changes the amino acid sequence of a protein but does not alter the function of the protein.
mutation frequency	Number of mutations within a group of individual organisms.
squamose -ous	scaly or covered with scales.
glucocorticoids	A group of steroids that have metabolic and anti-inflammatory effects
osmosis	The diffusion of water(or some other solvent) across a semipermeable(selectively permeable) membrane.
chromatography	Any technique which is used to separates different species of molecules (or ions) by subjecting them to two different carrier phases: mobile and stionary phases
isotopes	two or more atoms of the same element
epa	Abbreviation for eicosapentaenoic acid.
tetrapoda	applied to those butterflies in which the anterior legs are atrophied in whole or in part.
syntenic genes	Determined to be on the same chromosome by physical-mapping techniques.
anapsid	n
lateritius	yellowish-red; yellowish brick color [pale clay yellow with a little red].
phosphogluconate pathway	An oxidative pathway beginning with glucose-6phosphate and leading, via 6-phosphogluconate, to pentose phosphates and yielding NADPH
albicans	formed or made of white.
blast cell	An undifferentiated embryonic cell.
electrophoresis	The movement of charged particles through a fluid following the application of an electric field.
false positives	Also known as Type 1 errors, occur when we observe a difference that in truth is not actually there
antigen	Any material (usually foreign) that elicits production of and is specifically bound by an antibody.
ion	An atom or group of atoms that bears a net negative or positive charge.
antimutagen	An agent that decreases the rate of mutation.
streptophytes	The clade consisting of the plants plus their closest relatives, the charophytes.
conductance	A measure of how easily electrical current will flow through a conductive pathway
dna	the substance of heredity; a large molecule that carries the genetic information that cells need to replicate and to produce proteins.
protogonia	the apical angle of the primaries.
mesophyll	The ground tissue found in the middle of the leaf, between the upper and the lower epidermis
lusitropic	Relates to the relaxation and filling of the heart
spinal cord	Part of the vertebrate central nervous system; consists of a thick, dorsal, longitudinal bundle of nerve fibers extending posteriorly from the brain.
ph domain	see pleckstrin homology domain
cecidium	a gall.
obtusilingues	short-tongued bees with the tip obtuse or bifid: see acutilingues.
confocal microscope	Type of light microscope that produces a clear image of a given plane within a solid object
centripetal selection	See Stabilizing selection.
threatened species	Species that are likely to become endangered in the foreseeable future throughout all or a significant portion of their range.
eon	A major division of the geological time scale, often divided into two eons beginning from the origin of the earth 4.5 billion years ago: the Precambrian or Cryptozoic (rarity of life forms) and the Phanerozoic (abundance of life forms).
ichnology	The study of trace fossils.
optimum	term used to describe the particular condition of a variable factor at which an enzyme is most active.
rhizosphere	Zone of soil immediately adjacent to plant roots in which the kinds, numbers, or activities of microorganisms differ from that of the bulk soil.
cyanobacteria	Blue-green bacteria;
autooxidation	when oxidation occurs spontaneously
denatured protein	A protein that has lost its native conformation by exposure to a destabilizing agent such as heat or detergent.
red queen hypothesis	The view that adaptive evolution in one species of a community causes a deterioration of the environment of other species
modioliform	globular, truncated at both ends; like the hub of a wheel.
ascorbic acid	Another name for vitamin C, a compound with antioxidant properties that may help protect nerve cells from free radical damage and glutamate toxicity.
vibrant	having a rapid motion to and fro.
vitamin	An organic molecule required in the diet in very small amounts
habit -us	the port or aspect: used to express a resemblance in general appearance.
incubate	to brood: to cause to develop; as an egg.
stratosphere	region of the atmosphere above the troposphere; includes the ozone layer
testudinate -us	resembling the shell of a tortoise.
chemical bonds	an attraction between two atoms resulting from a sharing of outer shell electrons or the presence of opposite charges on the atom; the bonded atoms gain compounds outer electron shells
photosynthesis	The synthesis of organic compounds from carbon dioxide and water through a process that begins with the capture of light energy by chlorophyll.
facial quadrangle	in bees; the quadrangle bounded laterally by the eyes, above by a line between their summits and below by a similar line between their lowest points.
inorganic ion	A non-carbon atom (e.g., Na+) or group of atoms (e.g., SO42–) that bears a net negative or positive charge.
cardiac valvule	see oesophageal valve.
pedigree	Biological relationship among members of a family.
leucine	a white crystalline compound, the product of animal decomposition, found in the malpighian tubes: as a color, cheesy white.
electromagnetic spectrum	The entire spectrum of radiation ranging in wavelength from less than a nanometer to more than a kilometer.
cryptic	inconspicuous or hidden.
atoll	A region of DNA that is absent on the chromosome of an organism but absent from closely related organisms (i.e., the opposite of a genetic island)
freezing	To preserve an organism without any significant alteration to its chemical composition by subjecting it to freezing temperatures.
range	A set of values that a number can have
trivial	applied to a name, means specific as opposed to generic, or popular as opposed to technical.
opposite	placed over against, or opposed to.
anuria	Absence of urine secretion (scorpion sting).
oligosaccharide	A molecule containing a small number of sugar residues joined in a linear or a branched structure by glycosidic bonds.
phototroph	In reference to energy source - an organism which uses light as the energy source to drive the electron flow from the elctron donors (e.g
verbal model	A logical model with the relationships between variables expressed in words rather than mathematical equations.
zwitterion	A dipolar ion containing ionic groups of opposite charge.
aerosol	Atomized particles suspended in air; in context of this book, microorganisms suspended in air.
cell-cycle control system	A cyclically operating set of proteins that triggers and coordinates events in the eukaryotic cell cycle.
rod photoreceptor	Photoreceptor cell type in the retina that is responsible for noncolor vision in dim light.
flow field effect	A technology utilized in the design of microfluidics systems that utilizes field effects to control flow.
cytolysis	sigh-TAWL-luh-suhs/ Cell lysis.
optimum	The value of some variable or set of variables at which some process works best at
biological/biotic factors	Living factors such as decomposers, scavengers and predators.
disturbance	Any process that removes biomass from the community; an abiotic event, natural or human-caused such as fires and storms, that kills or damages some organisms and thereby creates opportunities for other organisms to grow and reproduce.
doppler effect	The shift in wavelength of light or sound that is perceived as the emitting body moves toward us (shorter wavelengths, for example, blue-shifted) or away from us (longer wavelengths, for example, red-shifted).
accumulators	Plants containing intermediate concentrations of certain chemical elements (frequently metals or metallic compounds).
light-independent reactions	The carbon-fixing reactions of the second stage of photosynthesis; energy stored in ATP and NADPH by the light-dependent reactions is used to reduce carbon from carbon dioxide to simple sugars; light is not required for these reactions.
translation	Process by which the sequence of nucleotides in a messenger RNA molecule directs the incorporation of amino acids into protein
half-life	The time required for the disappearance or decay of one-half of a given component in a system.
vasa recta	The capillary system that serves the loop of Henle.
hybrids	Offspring of a cross between genetically different parents or groups.
dysplasia	A change in cell growth and behavior in a tissue in which the structure becomes disordered.
generic drug	A copy of a drug that is introduced after the patent expires.
electrogenic	Contributing to an electrical potential across a membrane.
proband	The first person to be studied, from whom genetic descent may be traced.
regulatory enzyme	An enzyme having a regulatory function through its capacity to undergo a change in catalytic activity by allosteric mechanisms or by covalent modification.
familial dysautonomia	An inherited disorder that primarily causes dysfunction of the autonomic and sensory nervous systems as a result of an incomplete development of the nerve cells of these systems
allelopathy	Biochemical production by a plant which alters growth and survival of other plants or itself.
specific epithet	The second part of a binomial, referring to one species within a genus.
alkane	Straight chain or branched organic structure that lacks double bonds.
partial hepatectomy	Removal of two-thirds of the liver, which stimulates liver cell division resulting in the removal of almost all unintergrated DNA from the liver.
tuff	n
greenhouse gases	those gases capable of absorbing and re-emitting infrared radiation
condensation reaction	Chemical reaction in which two molecules are covalently linked through –OH groups with the removal of a molecule of water.
nitrification	The conversion of ammonia (NH3) to nitrate (NO3-).
bile	A yellow secretion of the vertebrate liver, temporarily stored in the gallbladder and composed of organic salts that emulsify fats in the small intestine.
vm	See Maximal Velocity
axillus	Armpit; the area between the upper arm and chest wall where the two join.
inflammatory bowel disease	A chronic inflammatory disease that can affect any part of the gastrointestinal tract but most commonly affects a part of the small intestine.
olfactory	having to do with the sense of smell.
denticulated	set with little teeth or notches.
fluorescence	A phenomenon associated with bioluminescence in which preexisting light (e.g., from a bioluminescent mechanism) is absorbed and re-emitted at longer wavelengths
esophagus	A channel that conducts food, by peristalsis, from the pharynx to the stomach
catabolite activator protein	Protein that functions in catabolite repression
cam-kinase ii	Multifunctional Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase found in all animal cells that undergoes autophosphorylation when activated
ruminants	Mammals — such as cattle, sheep, and goats — that can break down and digest cellulose.
dentiform	formed or appearing like a tooth.
catalytic cracking	catalysts used to promote molecular breakdown at lower temperatures than thermal cracking
alkalophile	Organism that grows best under alkaline conditions (up to a pH of 10.5).
iteroparous	Pertaining to a life history in which individuals reproduce more than once.
heat of vaporization	The quantity of heat a liquid must absorb for 1 g of it to be converted from the liquid to the gaseous state.
adenosine triphosphate	An adenine-containing nucleoside triphosphate that releases free energy when its phosphate bonds are hydrolyzed
independent	The probability of the an event occurring is not influenced by the occurrence of another event
smooth	a surface without elevations or indentations.
molecule	A chemical entity consisting of two or more atoms of the same or different elements chemically bonded together with covalent bonds.
condylarths	A mammalian order that became extinct during the Miocene period of the Cenozoic era but whose first occurrences are in the late Cretaceous period of the Mesozoic
columella	a little rod, pillar or central axis.
heteroimmune phage	A phage that is not sensitive to the repression of lytic development by another prophage in the infected cell.
spp.	abbreviation for more than one species.
litter	The undecomposed plant and animal material found on the forest floor.
hydrocarbons	An organic molecule consisting only of carbon and hydrogen.
radioimmunoassay	An immunological assay employing radioactive antibody or antigen for the detection of certain substances in body fluids.
spectroscopy	The study of molecular or atomic structure of a substance by observation of its interaction with electromagnetic radiation.
vulva	Collective term for the female external genitalia.
semelparity	Life histories characterized by death after first reproduction.
mesal	pertaining to, situated on or in the median plane of the body.
classification	the systematic arrangement of organisms, based on everything we know about them.
diversity	Term used to describe numbers of taxa, or variation in morphology.
isotope	Different form of the same element containing the same number of protons and electrons, but differing in the number of neutrons.
sere	The stages in a successional sequence.
ultracentrifuge	A high-speed centrifuge that can attain speeds up to 60,000 rpm and centrifugal fields of 500,000 times gravity
acif	Anticomplement immunofluorescence.
ecosystem	A community of organisms and their natural environment.
domain	1
positive assortative mating	Mating of Individuals with like phenotypes.
abiotic	Substances that are of nonbiological origin, or environments characterized by the absence of organisms.
ionic bond	Cohesion between two atoms, one with a positive charge, the other with a negative charge
intermediate filament	Fibrous protein filament (about 10 nm in diameter) that forms ropelike networks in animal cells
catalyst	A compound that lowers the activation energy of a reaction without itself being consumed.
plasmodesmata	This process requires movement proteins, which are virus-encoded proteins probably originally derived from plant proteins, which interact with the plasmodesmatal transport machinery
arid	Applied to regions in which the normal rainfall is insufficient to produce ordinary farm crops without irrigation, and in which desert conditions prevail: see humid.
ventose	inflated; puffed out.
photolithography	Selective masking generates light patterns that direct chemical transformations to specific areas of photosensitive surfaces
conditional mutant	A mutant that can grow under one set (permissive) of environmental conditions but cannot grow under different (restrictive or nonpermissive) conditions
dissociation curve	A chart showing the relative amounts of oxygen bound to hemoglobin when the pigment is exposed to solutions varying in their partial pressure of dissolved oxygen, pH, and other characteristics
anaerobic	Growth (energy obtained from the oxidative breakdown of food molecules) in the absence of molecular oxygen,
structural formula	chemical representation that shows the atoms and their arrangement with respect to one another in a molecule
parasitism	An association between species in which individuals of one species (the parasite) obtain their nutrients by living on or in the tissues of another species (the host), often with harmful effects to the host.
macula	a colored mark larger than a spot; of indeterminate figure.
conjugate	to bring together in pairs: consisting of a single pair
determination	Process by which a cell becomes committed to developing into a particular cell type.
silt	Soil particle with a diameter between 0.002 and0.05 mm.
stable isotope	An isotope that does not undergo radioactive decay.
isometric contraction	A contraction in which a muscle does not shorten significantly as it exerts force (tension) against a load it cannot move.
primary immune response	The initial acquired immune response to an antigen, which appears after a lag of about 10 to 17 days.
autotroph	An organism that used inorganic compounds as nutrients and carbon dioxide as the sole source of carbon
multipotent	The ability to give rise to a number of limited cell types.
dysneuria	/dis-NUHR-ee-yə/ n
setigenous	the hypodermal cells that give rise to setae.
unsaturated fatty acid	A fatty acid possessing one or more double bonds between the carbons in the hydrocarbon tail
amylase	enzyme made by plant and animal cells that promotes the breakdown of starch to maltose.
asexual	Reproduction in an organism by division or redistribution of nuclei, but without nuclear fusion, i.e., not by the union of two nuclei
stationary phase	The period during the growth cycle of a population in which growth ceases.
dtmp	Thymidine monophosphate.
centrosome cycle	Duplication of the centrosome (during interphase) and separation of the two new centrosomes (at the beginning of mitosis), which provides two centrosomes to form the poles of the mitotic spindle.
iontophoresis	The transfer of ions across cell membranes due to the application of an electrical potential.
sordid	dirty; dull.
deoxyribose sugar	Five-carbon sugar in DNA; lacks a hydroxyl group on the 2'-carbon atom.
pure culture	A culture containing a single kind of microorganism.
food web	The elaborate, interconnected feeding relationships in an ecosystem.
aggregate	See soil aggregate
plate	n
hydrolysis	Cleavage of a bond, such as an anhydride or peptide bond, by the addition of the elements of water, yielding two or more products.
holdfast	Anchoring base of an alga.
evaporite	n
cost of resistance	The fitness effects of an allele that confers resistance (often denoted by R) to a pesticide or antibiotic in the absence of the pesticide or antibiotic.
lobate -us	divided by deep, undulating and successive incisions.
antigenic drift	A process by which circulating influenza viruses are constantly changing, which allows the viruses to cause annual epidemics of illness
isogamy	fusion of morphologically identical gametes.
endonuclease	An enzyme that makes breaks in a molecule of DNA by hydrolyzing internal phosphodiester bonds
stereoisomers	Isomers that are nonsuperimposable mirror images of each other.
cerebellum	Major region of the brain concerned with coordinating movements
gpi anchor	see glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor
hydrochlorofluorocarbons	compounds of hydrogen, chlorine, fluorine, and carbon
normal huntingtin	See huntingtin protein
hydrolysis	The rupture of a chemical bond by a reaction that involves water.
opercula	two plates covering the vocal structure of Cicada, beneath.
glycosaminoglycan	A polysaccharide containing aminomonosaccharide residues.
helicases	Proteins that unwind the DNA double helix.
helix	A spiral structure with a repeating pattern.
photon	A discrete packet or quantum of light energy
tandem repeats	Multiple copies of the same base sequence on a chromosome.
self-renew	The idea that an ecosystem could form a stable climax community after a disturbance.
sebaceous	fatty or oily; applied to glands secreting such substances.
insulin-like growth factor	A hormone produced by the liver whose secretion is stimulated by growth hormone
laemodipodiform	like a laemodipod; similar to the larva of a walking stick.
ad	Abbreviation for Alzheimer's disease.
cometabolism	The metabolic transformation of a substance while a second substance serves as primary energy or carbon source.
in vitro mutagenesis	A method for mutating DNA outside of a host cell
culture	A particular strain or kind of organism growing in a laboratory medium.
dna transcription	see transcription
intermediate filaments	Cytoplasmic fibers averaging 10 nm in diameter (and thus are "intermediate" in size between actin filaments (8 nm) and microtubules (25 nm)
dimidius	of half length.
hemoglobin	An iron-containing protein in red cells that reversibly binds oxygen
carbonaceous	Possessing organic (carbon) compounds.
leukocyte	White blood cell.
melanoma	a cancer that begins in skin cells called melanocytes and spreads to internal organs.
temperate	Region in which the climate undergoes seasonal change in temperature and moisture
enzyme electrode	An enzyme-linked electrode that senses a substrate or product of the reaction catalyzed by the enzyme.
cursorial	Adapted for running on land.
nmr	Resonant absorption of electromagnetic radiation at a specific frequency by atomic nuclei in a magnetic field, due to flipping of the orientation of their magnetic dipole moments
hemicryptophytes	Plants with their perennating buds at or near the soil surface (e.g
ecological levels	The organizational levels at which ecologists study the interactions between organisms and their environment
phosphorylation	The formation of a phosphate derivative of a biomolecule.
long-term potentiation	Long-lasting increase (days to weeks) in the sensitivity of certain synapses in the hippocampus
puromycin	An antibiotic that inhibits protein synthesis
cracking	chemical process by which large molecules are broken into smaller ones, such as those suitable for use in gasoline
hdac	Abbreviation for histone deacetylase.
biosphere	All the living matter on or in the earth, the seas, and the atmosphere.
alu sequence	A 3-5% component of the human genome, consisting of 300-bp repetitive DNA sequences containing an Alu 1 restriction site.
half-life	The average time required for the disappearance or decay of one-half of any amount of a given substance.
cell cycle	Complete sequence of steps which must be performed by a cell in order to replicate itself, as seen from mitotic event to mitotic event
ecological succession	The process by which biological community composition (the number and proportion of different species in an ecosystem) recover over time following a disturbance event.Â 
neurologist	A specialist in the diagnosis and treatment of disorders of the nervous system.
carboxyl group	A --COOH group attached to a carbon skeleton as in the carboxylic acids and fatty acids.
mismatch repair enzyme	An enzyme that recognizes and repairs incorrect pairings of nitrogenous bases in DNA
microenvironment	The immediate physical and chemical surroundings of a microorganism.
clone	A new individual, produced by asexual reproduction, that is genetically identical to its parent, or a group of such individuals
homoplastic	implies that organs, similar in situation and purpose, are not structurally the same, or have not the same origin.
adaption	The ability to physiologically adjust to a new environment while exposed to that particular environment
polyploidy	A situation where the cells of an organism have more than two of each kind of homologous chromosome
disaccharide	A carbohydrate consisting of two covalently joined monosaccharide units.
buffer	A conjugate acid-base pair that is capable of resisting changes in pH when acid or base is added to the system
learning	The process that leads to modification in individual behavior as the result of experience.
disaccharides	n
proteinoids	Synthetic polymers produced by heating a mixture of amino acids
atomic mass	The total mass of an atom, which is the mass in grams of one mole of the atom.
thivoflavine t	A compound that is believed to decrease the presence of beta-amyloid fibrils, but has little or no success in inhibiting huntingtin protein aggregation.
brachiation	Apelike locomotion through trees: hanging from branches and swinging alternate arms (left, right, left,...) from branch to branch, accompanied by a rotation of the body during each swing.
anthropogenic	Derived from human activities.
variation	Difference among individuals in a population.
acetylene-block assay	Estimates denitrification by determining release of nitrous oxide (N2O) from acetylene-treated soil.
work	form of energy describing movement against a restraining force
obligate aerobe	An organism which can grow only in the presence of oxygen (O2).
nonheme iron proteins	Proteins, usually acting in oxidation-reduction reactions, containing iron but no porphyrin groups.
radical	(in a surgical sense) directed at the cause of a disease; thus, radical prostatectomy is the surgical removal of the prostate with the intent to cure the problem believed to be caused by or within the prostate
nalidixic acid	An antibiotic that inhibits DNA gyrase.
bioconversion	In industrial microbiology, use of microorganisms to convert an added chemical to a chemically modified form.
saltation	The concept that new species or higher taxa originate abruptly because of macromutations, or because of sudden unknown causes.
enzyme	A protein that speeds up a chemical reaction
matrix	The majority of the landscape surrounding the patches (i.e., not the patches).
aerobic	The presence of oxygen
fluorescein	See fluorescent staining.
gulf strip	see semitropical or gulf strip.
solution	a homogeneous mixture of two or more substance (liquid)
glycogen	A polymer of glucose residues in 1,4 linkage, with 1,6 linkages at branchpoints.
wine vinegar	Vinegar produced by the oxidation of alcohol in wine by members of the genus Acetobacter.
scanning electron microscope	A microscope that uses an electron beam to scan the surface of a sample to study details of its topography
swoked	smoky, suffused with gray or blackish.
amino acid	unit molecule from which proteins are constructed by polymerization.
dehydrogenases	Enzymes catalyzing the removal of pairs of hydrogen atoms from their substrates.
middle lamella	A thin layer of adhesive extracellular material, primarily pectins, found between the primary walls of adjacent young plant cells.
gene expression	The process by which a 
polyisoprenoid–	see isoprenoid
heat of vaporization	The amount of heat required to change a given amount of a liquid into a gas; 540 calories are required to change 1 gram of liquid water into vapor.
congenital	Existing from birth.
palmate	like the palm of the hand, with finger-like processes.
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis	an inherited, fatal degenerative nerve disorder; also known as Lou Gehrig's disease.
fluorescence	The emission of electromagnetic radiation following absorption of shorter wave length light.
vestibule	The cavity enclosed by the labia minora; the space into which the vagina and urethral opening empty.
chemical markup language	A computional language for the management of chemical data.
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs	Compounds that significantly reduce the inflammatory response by interfering with the cyclooxygenase pathway, reducing the level of compounds that mediate inflammation.
macromolecule	A large molecule formed from the connection of a number of small molecules.
astrocyte	A type of glial cell (non-neuronal cell) of the vertebrate central nervous system that regulates extracellular ion concentrations and metabolically supports neurons
synapsis	Pairing of homologous chromosomes during meiosis.
pi	See isoelectric point.
bifarious	pointing in opposite directions.
denitrification	Conversion of nitrate into nitrogen gases under anaerobic conditions, resulting in loss of nitrogen from ecosystems.
papillose -us	pimply; a surface covered with raised dots or pimples.
phospholipid bilayer	A symmetrical two-layer structure, found in all biomembranes, in which the polar head groups of phospholipids are exposed to the aqueous medium, while the nonpolar hydrocarbon chains of the fatty acids are in the center
dermographia	/DERM-ə-GRAF-ee-yə/ n
iron-sulfur center	Electron-transporting group consisting of either two or four iron atoms bound to an equal number of sulfur atoms, found in a class of electron-transport proteins.
soil microbiology	Branch of soil science concerned with soil-inhabiting microorganisms and their functions and activities.
fixity of species	A concept held by Linnaeus and others that members of a species could only produce progeny like themselves, and therefore each species was fixed in its particular form(s) at the time of its creation.
eukaryote	A cell or organism that has a membrane-bound nucleus.
primary succession	A type of ecological succession that occurs in an area where there were originally no organisms.
osteoclast	A mononucleate macrophage that breaks down the bone matrix and plays a role in bone remodeling.
electrical energy	Energy that a system possesses by virtue of the separation of positive and negative electrical charges.
hydroxylamine	NH2OH
ap endonuclease	An endonuclease which recognizes an AP site and cuts the defective strand on the 5' side of the missing base.
mass extinction	A highly elevated rate of extinction of species, extending over an interval that is relatively short on a geological time scale (although still very long on a human time scale).
mm.	= Millimeter: .001 meter = .039 of an inch: roughly 25 mm
dam	n
haptonema	Peg-like structure unique to the Prymnesiophyta; its function is not known.
deletion mapping	The use of overlapping deletions to determine the location of a gene on a chromosome.
amp	Abbreviation of adenosine monophosphate.
atomic mass	average mass of an atom of an element compared with an atomic mass of exactly 12 amu for carbon-12 121; mass (in grams) of the same number of atoms found in exactly 12 g of carbon-12
laurentia	n
transduction	(1) Generally, the conversion of energy or information from one form to another
folding	The acquisition of 3-D structure by a protein; the pattern of the 3-D structure that is the result of the folding process.
synangium	A cluster of sporangia which have become fused in development.
kermesinus	dark red, with much blue [purple lake].
iodine solution	red-brown liquid used for two different purposes: a) to stain the nucleus of a cell yellow-brown; b) to set for the presence of starch.
fucoxanthin	yellowish-brown pigment found in some members of the Chromista, including kelps and diatoms.
condensation reaction	A reaction in which two molecules become covalently bonded to each other through the loss of a small molecule, usually water; also called dehydration reaction.
rectus	right or straight.
organic	Carbon-containing compounds
solution	homogeneous mixture of uniform composition
correlation	Degree of association between two or more variables.
oxygenated gasolines	blends of petroleum-derived hydrocarbons with added oxygen-containing compounds such as MTBE, ethanol, or methanol (CH3OH)
photosynthetic capability	How much energy an organism is able to capture from the sun to, through a series of chemical steps, synthesize sugars; how much energy an organism is able to convert from light energy to chemical energy.
soil population	(i) All the organisms living in the soil, including plants and animals
sticky ends	The two complementary single-stranded ends of a DNA duplex
lymphokine	Substance secreted from T lymphocytes which stimulates the activity of other cells.
hydrophobic	Having an aversion to water; tending to coalesce and form droplets in water.
hydrocarbon	An organic molecule consisting only of carbon and hydrogen.
zoonosis	A disease that may be transmitted to humans from animals.
ups	Abbreviation for ubiquitin-proteasome system.
ace	Angiotensin-converting enzyme.
distal	/DIS-təl/ adj
developmental physiology	The study of functional properties in successive stages of the development of an individual animal
caesius -eous	a pale dull blue-gray [blue-gray].
atpase	One of a large group of enzymes that catalyze hydrolysis of ATP to yield ADP and inorganic phosphate with release of free energy.
atp	See adenosine triphosphate.
kinetic energy	The energy of motion, which is directly related to the speed of that motion
placenta	n
neutron	An electrically neutral particle (a particle having no electrical charge), found in the nucleus of an atom.
determination	In embryogenesis, a change in a cell that commits the cell to a particular developmental pathway.
envelope	A lipoprotein outer layer of enveloped viruses that is derived from the plasma membrane of the host cell.
coorperativity	For DNA binding proteins, cooperativity generally refers to the increased binding of a protein to a DNA site due to the prior binding of another protein nearby
cardiovascular	Relating to or involving the heart and blood vessels.
constituent	a part or element of a whole.
microvilli	Projections from the cell surfaces of an embryo involved in the exchange of gases and nutrients.
amphipathic	Referring to a molecule or structure that has both a hydrophobic and a hydrophilic part.
nucleoside diphosphate kinase	An enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of the terminal phosphate of a nucleoside 5'-triphosphate to a nucleoside 5'-diphosphate.
embossed	ornamented with raised figures.
discus	a disc; a somewhat flat circular part or area.
gene therapy	Eastern European scientists have used phage therapy as an alternative to antibiotics for some time, and interest in this approach is increasing, because of the high level of antibiotic resistance now found in some pathogenic bacteria.
immunological memory	Long-lived state that follows a primary immune response to many antigens, in which subsequent encounter with that antigen will provoke a rapid secondary immune response.
pdc	See pyruvate dehydrogenase complex.
microfilaments	Cytoskeletal fibers (≈7 nm in diameter) that are formed by polymerization of monomeric globular (G) actin; also called actin filaments
saturated hydrocarbon	hydrocarbon chain containing only single bonds between the carbon atoms
cancer	A group of disorders resulting from a loss of cell cycle control.
molarity	A common measure of solute concentration, referring to the number of moles of solute per liter of solution.
bile salts	A product produced in the liver from cholesterol
commensalism	applied to this manner of living and eating together.
photosynthesis	A two step process by which plants and other organisms that take light energy, transfer it to electrons and use the electrons plus hydrogen ions to reduce carbon dioxide to produce sugars
x-inactivation center	Site in an X chromosome at which inactivation is initiated and spreads outwards.
sanguineous -eus	red like arterial blood [crimson lake].
dgla	Abbreviation for Dihommogamma-Linoleic Acid.
gymnosperm	n
enthalpy	The heat content of a system.
oligonucleotide	A short sequence of polynucleotide
vacuole	large organelle in plant cells that contains water, often having dissolved pigments, waste materials, or other substances
necrophagous	living in or on carrion.
booster	A secondary immunization used to increase a weak immune response to a primary immunization.
apiculis	an erect, fleshy short point.
biosynthesis	The production of needed cellular constituents from other (usually simpler) molecules.
linkage map	A map of the relative positions of genetic markers, based on how often they are inherited together.
data warehouse	A collection of databases combined with a flexible data extraction system.
biodiversity hotspot	A relatively small area with an exceptional concentration of species.
phosphate group	A phosphorus atom attached to four oxygen atoms; one of the three components of a nucleotide.
tumescent	a little swollen or puffed up.
peltate	shield- or target-shaped.
phosphodiester linkage	Set of covalent chemical bonds formed when two hydroxyl groups are linked in ester linkage to the same phosphate group
intercalating agent	Substance which inserts itself into DNA in spaces between bases.
gamete	A haploid cell for use in reproduction to produce a diploid zygote upon fusing with another such haploid cell.
gametogenesis	The formation of haploid eggs or sperm (gametes) through the process of meiosis
trapeziform	in the form or shape of a trapezium.
pannotia	n
branch migration	Movement of the branch point in branched DNA formed from two DNA molecules with identical sequences
trafficking	The movement of protein molecules between active and inactive locations in a cell, thereby controlling the functional activity of the protein molecules
expression	Production of an observable phenotype by a gene—usually by directing the synthesis of a protein.
pyloric valvule	a circular projection of the stomach behind which is an enlargement of the intestine.
endurance exercise	Exercise that consists of many repetitions of relatively low-intensity muscular actions over long periods of time
nad+	a coenzyme present in all cells that helps enzymes transfer electrons during the redox reactions of metabolism
parameters	User-derived values used to set the boundaries of an algorithm.
antiseptic	Agent that kills or inhibits microbial growth but is not harmful to human tissue.
van der waals interaction	A weak noncovalent attraction due to small, transient asymmetric electron distributions around atoms (dipoles).
replacement	Fossilization process in which the original material in an organism is broken down and replaced by different minerals.
capsomere	An individual protein subunit of the virus capsid.
corpus luteum	A secreting tissue in the ovary that forms from the collapsed follicle after ovulation and produces progesterone.
rho factor	Protein found in E
photons	individual bundles of energy
keystone species	Species that have effects on communities that far exceed their abundance.
capsule	The polysaccharide outer layer of some bacteria
winter spores	(of rust fungi) see TELIOSPORES.
carbonyl group	kar-buh-NEEL/ A functional group composed of a carbon atom double-bonded to an oxygen atom
concatenate	linked together in a chain-like series.
morphological species concept	The idea that species are defined by measurable anatomical criteria.
resource ratio theory	Competitive interactions are based on species
simple diffusion	The movement of solute molecules across a membrane to a region of lower concentration, unassisted by a protein transporter.
perturbagen	A molecule or peptide that disrupts intracellular processes, providing information about the operation of pathways and networks within the cell.
caudo-cephalic	in a line from the head to the tail.
ecological efficiency	The ratio of net productivity at one trophic level to net productivity at the next lower level.
reduction	Gain of electrons by an atom or molecule as occurs when hydrogen is added to a molecule or oxygen is removed
fecula	the excrement of insects.
fine-grained environment	A heterogeneous environment whose varied conditions can normally be experienced by a single individual during its lifetime.
electroencephalogram	A record of gross electrical activity in the brain, usually recorded using multiple electrodes placed on the skin of the head or on the brain surface
shared primitive character	A character displayed in species outside a particular taxon.
rhizosphere competence	Ability of an organism to colonize the rhizosphere.
polysaccharide	A linear or branched polymer of monosaccharide units linked by glycosidic bonds.
inverted terminal repeats	Repeat sequences in reverse orientation that serve as the viral origins of replication
dihybrid	An organism that is heterozygous with respect to two genes of interest
antigen	A foreign substance that triggers antibody formation and is bound by the corresponding antibody.
micro chemical system	A miniature system for the synthesis and analysis of chemicals.
uvrabc	An enzyme complex that functions as an endonuclease, cutting the DNA on both sides of DNA lesions that distort the double-helix (for example, T-T dimers)
electron carrier	Molecule such as cytochrome c, which transfers an electron from a donor molecule to an acceptor molecule.
disturbance events	Variation in climate, variation in flooding frequency or drought frequency, or frequencies of storm events characterized by their frequency and impact.
chemolithotroph	An organism which obtains its energy from the oxidation of inorganic compounds.
endonuclease	An enzyme that breaks a phosphodiester linkage at some point within a polynucleotide chain.
second law of thermodynamics	the statement that the entropy of the universe is constantly increasing
directional selection	Natural selection that favors individuals at one end of the phenotypic range.
contagious	Of a disease, transmissible.
rhombus	a quadrangular figure having its four sides equal and its opposite lines parallel, with two opposite angles acute and two obtuse.
excalcarate	without spurs.
configuration	Refers to almost limitless aspects of landscape heterogeneity, especially the physical and spatial distribution of landscape elements
vomitoxin	4-Deoxynivalenol, a trichothecene; a mycotoxin produced by Fusarium graminearum (Hyphomycetes); esp
mold	A filamentous fungus.
patulin	a mycotoxin from Aspergillus clavatus, Penicillium patulum, P
allopatric speciation	Speciation between populations that are geographically separated.
avidity	Firmness of union of two substances; used commonly to describe union of antibody to antigen.
age-specific survivorship	Proportion of individuals which survive from birth to the beginning of a specific age class.
nuclear receptor superfamily	Intracellular receptors for hydrophobic signal molecules such as steroids and retinoic acid
villose -ous	soft-haired or clothed with soft, short hair.
ionic compound	compound composed of electrically charged ions that are present in fixed proportions and are arranged in a regular, geometric pattern
auxotroph	Differing from the wild strain (prototroph) by an additional nutritional requirement.
monomer	One unit of a protein or other structure.
microfluidics chips	The chips contain very tiny channels in which the movement of fluids can be controlled
genital armature	all the processes concerned in copulation.
higher water concentration	region from which net movement of water molecules occurs during osmosis.
taxonomy	The science of naming and classifying organisms.
reduction	Process by which a compound accepts electrons.
darwinism	The concept, proposed by Charles Darwin, that biological evolution has led to the many different highly adapted species through natural selection acting on hereditary variations in populations.
molecular modeling	Computational analysis and modeling of the physicochemical properties of a molecule or biomacromolecule.
postgenomic	Referring to the study of an animal species or other organism after its full genome is known.
codon	In a messenger RNA molecule, a sequence of three bases that represents a particular amino acid.
allosteric enzyme	A regulatory enzyme, with catalytic activity modulated by the noncovalent binding of a specific metabolite at a site other than the active site.
wild type	A strain of microorganism isolated from nature
glycosyl transferase	An enzyme that forms a glycosidic bond between a sugar residue (monosaccharide) and an amino acid side chain of a protein or a residue in an existing carbohydrate chain.
protein aggregation	the process of forming protein aggregates.
pharmacogenomics	The evaluation of individual genomic variation in relation to the delivery and effectiveness of drugs
lipoprotein	A lipid-protein aggregate that serves to carry water-insoluble lipids in the blood
high throughput machines	A system which enables researchers can rapidly and efficiently search through chemical compound libraries, each with thousands of different samples, testing each of them for positive interactions with the biological target
auxins	plant growth hormones; some are produced by ectomycorrhizal fungi.
cotyla	the articular pan; the cup or socket of a ball and socket joint.
norepinephrine	A molecule that acts as a neurotransmitter and as a hormone to increase heart rate, blood pressure, and blood sugar levels in times of physical or mental stress
multangulate	with many angles.
soil salinity	Amount of soluble salts in a soil
jack-in-a-box asci	see BITUNICATE.
plaque assay	Technique for determining the number of infectious viral particles in a sample by culturing a diluted sample on a layer of susceptible host cells and then counting the clear areas of lysed cells (plaques) that develop
photosynthesis	The use of light energy to produce carbohydrates from carbon dioxide and a reducing agent such as water.
pyloric sphincter	In the vertebrate digestive tract, a muscular ring that regulates the passage of food out of the stomach and into the small intestine.
symporter	Carrier protein that transports two types of solute across the membrane in the same direction.
brown fat	A tissue in some mammals, located in the neck and between the shoulders, that is specialized for rapid heat production.
trochlearis	pulley-shaped; like a cylinder contracted medially.
lanuginose -us	with long, curled hair dispersed over the surface: see crinitus.
mycosis	An infection caused by fungi.
antigen	Substance that is recognized by the immune system and elicits an immune response.
cohesion	The force that holds molecules of the same substance together.
multiplication rule	States that the probability of two or more independent events occurring together is calculated by multiplying the probabilities of each of the individual events.
secondary succession	A type of succession that occurs where an existing community has been severely cleared by some disturbance.
ozone layer	A layer of ozone around the earth protects the life on earth from the sun.s harmful ultraviolet rays
polypeptide backbone	The chain of repeating carbon and nitrogen atoms, linked by peptide bonds, in a polypeptide or protein
posterior pituitary	The neuroendocrine portion of the vertebrate pituitary gland in which neurohormones are released from axon terminals
oxidation-reduction reaction	A reaction in which electrons are transferred from a donor to an acceptor molecule; also called a redox reaction.
polypeptide	Linear polymer of amino acids connected by peptide bonds
monera	One of the five “traditional” Kingdoms of life
tetradactyle	with four fingers or finger-like processes.
virtual screening	A combinatorial chemistry technique for the computational screening of compounds.
respiration	General term for any cellular process involving the uptake of O2 coupled to production of CO2.
hydrostatic pressure	The sort of pressure that is developed in a fluid (gas or liquid) when forces are applied that tend to increase the amount of matter per unit of volume
eutelegenesis	The use of artificial insemination to improve genetic endowment.
strain	Individuals kept in a closed breeding group in order to maintain particular characteristics.
immunomodulation	Activation or suppression of the immune response.
lesion	A piece of tissue that is either missing or so damaged that it cannot perform its normal function.
vicariance	Speciation which occurs as a result of the separation and subsequent isolation of portions of an orginal population.
local regulator	A chemical messenger that influences cells in the vicinity.
island	A large region of DNA that is present on the chromosome of an organism but absent from closely related organisms.
receptive hyphae	special hyphae arising from spermagonia of rust fungi; the spermatia from other spermagonia fuse with them and initiate the dikaryon.
torsion	A characteristic of gastropods in which the visceral mass rotates during development.
clone	An exact copy of a
phagocytosis	The uptake of large particles, such as bacteria, by a cell.
crust	n
malnutrition	condition caused by a diet lacking in the proper mix of nutrients, even though the energy content of the food eaten may be adequate
horseradish peroxidase	An enzyme that can be complexed to DNA for use in some non-radioactive DNA labeling procedures.
urite	an abdominal segment and, specifically, its ventral portion.
adenomatous polyposis coli	Tumor suppressor protein that forms part of a protein complex that recruits free cytoplasmic β-catenin and degrades it.
random sample	Sample of individuals drawn without regard to any specific criteria e.g., phenotype, genotype or relationship to other individuals.
membrane resistance	The electrical resistance of a membrane per unit of area
gastroliths	n
p53	(See Tumor-suppressor genes.)
parcidentate	with few teeth.
motif	Element of structure or pattern that recurs in many contexts
pharmacodynamics	explain at what the drug does to the body
processive	The activity of an enzyme that progressively synthesizes or breaks down a polymeric molecule using successive cyclic reactions but does not dissociate from the template between cycles.
inflexus	= inflected.
polyamine	A hydrocarbon containing more than two amino groups.
glycoprotein	Any protein with one or more oligosaccharide chains covalently linked to amino-acid side chains
deletion	/də-LEE-shən, dee-/ n
footprinting	A technique for identifying the nucleic acid sequence bound by a DNA- or RNA-binding protein.
pipetting	Using a pipette (a syringe-like instrument) to measure and transfer liquids from one container to another.
functional proteomics	The large-scale study of protein function, especially protein-protein interaction networks, biochemical pathways, and post-translational modifications.
half-life	The number of years it takes for 50% of a sample of an isotope to decay.
black-body temperature	See radiant temperature.
ast	Asparate aminotransferase (formerly SGOT).
linkers	Short oligonucleotides that can be ligated (connected) to larger DNA fragments, then cleaved (cut) to yield overlapping cohesive (sticky) ends, suitable for ligation to other DNAs that contain comparable cohesive ends.
joint	a segment or part between two incisures: an articulation.
ecological drift	Random change in species abundance over time.
cross-feeding	(i) Specific type of syntrophy where two populations cooperate to metabolize a compound
ruben	red, approaching carmine [alizar crimson].
oligotrophic lake	A nutrient-poor, clear, deep lake with minimum phytoplankton.
septate junction	Main type of occluding cell junction in invertebrates; their structure is distinct from that of vertebrate tight junctions.
endomycorrhizal fungus	A fungus that forms endomycorrhizae with plant roots.
nutraceutical	A nutrient that confers beneficial effects.
fuscescent	becoming brown; with a brown shading.
homolog	One of two or more genes that are similar in sequence as a result of derivation from the same ancestral gene
thyroid-stimulating hormone	A hormone produced by the anterior pituitary that regulates the release of thyroid hormones.
chitin	n
coenzyme	Small organic molecule that associates with an enzyme and participates in the reaction catalyzed by the enzyme; also called cofactor
ligand-gated ion channel	A protein pore in the plasma membrane that opens or closes in response to a chemical signal, allowing or blocking the flow of specific ions.
vis formatrix	the creative or formative force.
ß-lactamase	An enzyme that cleaves the ß-lactam ring of ß-lactam antibiotics, thus inactivating the antibiotics
heterotroph	An organism that requires preformed organic compounds for growth.
marmorate -us	spots and lines irregularly disposed, as in marble: marbled
fat transfer	A procedure, also known as "fat grafting," where fat is harvested from one part of the patient's body and then reinjected into the face
mycoparasite	a fungus which attacks other fungi (sometimes called HYPERPARASITE).
marionette lines	Also known as "oral commissures," marionette lines run downward from the corners of the mouth.
pleiotropy	The ability of a single gene to have multiple effects.
lactate / lactic acid	A chemical that is formed when sugars are broken down for energy in the absence of adequate oxygen
xenopus laevis	An African clawed toad used to study developmental biology.
variable region	Region of an immunoglobulin light or heavy chain that differs from molecule to molecule; it comprises the antigen-binding site.
limbate	when a disc is surrounded by a margin of different color.
precambrian eon	A major division of the geological time scale that includes all eras from the origin of the earth about 4.5 billion years ago to the beginning of the Phanerozoic eon, about 545 million years ago
monoecy	System of sexual expression in plant species in which individual plants bear staminate (male) and pistillate (female) flowers that are physically seperated on the same plant..
cathode	electrode where reduction takes place
tidal volume	The volume of air an animal inhales and exhales with each breath.
pheromone	A hormone-like substance that acts as an attractant.
diastolic pressure	The pressure in an artery during the ventricular relaxation phase of the heart cycle.
km	the concentration of substrate at ½ Vmax, according to the Henri-Michaelis-Menten kinetic model (QB manual, Section IV, pg9)
citric acid cycle	See tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle.
pelagic	Refers to an entire body of water and the organisms within it, excluding the bottom (benthic) zone.
exergonic	A reaction that releases energy.
cognitive map	A representation within the nervous system of spatial relations between objects in an animal's environment.
genetic variation	Genetic heterogeneity in a population.
ossification	n
nonelectrolyte	nonconducting solute in solutions
terminal space	the area between the s
nonadditive genetic variance	The sum of the dominance and epistatic variance.
intestines	The part of the gastrointestinal tract through which food passes after passing through the stomach
population viability analysis	A method of predicting whether or not a species will persist in a particular environment.
ingens	unusually large or disproportionate in size.
communal	applied to life or dwelling in colonies like ants and bees.
sirtuins	A group of enzymes that may play a role in lifespan extension.
amobea	unicellular pond animal lacking definite shape.
torose	swelling into knots or protuberances.
frontal lunule	Diptera; an oval or crescentic space above the base of antennae in Cyclorrhapha, bounded by the frontal suture.
leukotrienes	A family of molecules derived from arachidonate; muscle contractants that constrict air passages in the lungs and are involved in asthma.
tertile	This term is often used in explaining the distribution of scores on a test
signal transduction	Relaying a signal by conversion from one form to another
repeatability	Measure of the degree of association between repeated measurements for the same trait obtained on the same individual
cathaysian terranes	n
plus-strand nucleic acid	An RNA or DNA strand which has the same sense as the mRNA of a virus.
phanerophytes	Plants with their perennating organs greater than 0.5 meters above the ground (normally woody perennials).
sediment	Any solid material that has settled out of a state of suspension in liquid.
protozoa	Free-living or parasitic, nonphotosynthetic, single-celled, motile eucaryotic organisms, such as Paramecium and Amoeba
trace minerals	minerals in the diet that are usually required in micrograms
reclinate	directed backward; e.g
transport epithelium	One or more layers of specialized epithelial cells that regulate solute movements.
c3 plants	A plant that uses the Calvin cycle for the initial steps that incorporate CO2 into organic material, forming a three-carbon compound as the first stable intermediate.
phenotype	The visible characteristics (e.g
juvenile hormone	In insects, a lipid-soluble hormone secreted by the nonneural endocrine cells of the corpora allata that stimulates its target tissues to maintain immature characteristics.
osmotic potential	A component of water potential that is proportional to the number of dissolved solute molecules in a solution and measures the effect of solutes on the direction of water movement; also called solUte potential, it can be either zero or negative.
product	A compound formed as a result of an enzymatic reaction.
microcell	very tiny fuel cell
apicomplexan	A parasitic protozoan
dermal	/DERM-əl/ adj
density	the ratio of mass per unit volume
mechano growth factor	A locally acting peptide, produced by muscle fibers when they are stimulated to produce mechanical activity, that stimulates muscle satellite cells to proliferate and become incorporated into the muscle fibers.
computer-assisted drug design	Computational techniques to design and optimize biologically active compounds with desired structure and properties.
glycolysis	The catabolic pathway by which a molecule of glucose is broken down into two molecules of pyruvate.
fluid mosaic model	A model describing biological membranes as a fluid lipid bilayer with embedded proteins; the bilayer exhibits both structural and functional asymmetry.
optimal foraging theory	Relates the costs of moving among different habitat patches to habitat quality and the distances separating patches.
intramatrical spores	another name for the vesicles produced in host roots by most endomycorrhizal fungi.
consortium	Two or more members of a natural assemblage in which each organism benefits from the other
initiator	A eukaryotic promoter sequence for RNA polymerase II that specifies transcription initiation within the sequence.
exoloma	the apical margin of the wings.
recombinase	An enzyme that catalyzes genetic recombination.
genotype	Genetic constitution of an organism.
galvanized iron	iron coated with zinc
site-directed mutagenesis	A set of methods used to create specific alterations in the sequence of a gene.
anaerobic	Pertaining to the absence of free oxygen
pg1 and pg3	Classes of prostaglandins that are known to have anti-inflammatory effects such as decreasing pain, increasing oxygen flow, dilating airways, and decreasing inflammation.
citric acid cycle	A cyclic system of enzymatic reactions for the oxidation of acetyl residues to carbon dioxide, in which formation of citrate is the first step; also known as the Krebs cycle or tricarboxylic acid cycle.
recursion	The repetition of a data-processing algorithm until a pre-set threshold is reached.
feedback systems	Control mechanisms whereby an increase or decrease in the level of a particular factor inhibits or stimulates the production, utilization, or release of that factor; important in the regulation of enzyme and hormone levels, ion concentrations, temperature, and many other factors.
lab-on-the-chip	Microfabricated system for performing biochemical assays such as e.g
fmn	Riboflavin phosphate, a coenzyme of certain oxidation-reduction enzymes.
cyclocreatine	An analog of creatine
vaporization	A change in the physical state of a material from a liquid to a gas.
synergist	An agent that increases the effectiveness of a ligand or other agent.
saturated fatty acid	A fatty acid in which all carbons in the hydrocarbon tail are connected by single bonds, thus maximizing the number of hydrogen atoms that can attach to the carbon skeleton.
golgi complex	An eukaryotic organelle involved in the secretion of certain proteins.
polarity of characters	The states of characters used in a cladistic analysis, either original or derived.Original characters are those acquired by an ancestor deeper in the phylogeny than the most recent common ancestor of the taxa under consideration
hydropathy index	A scale that expresses the relative hydrophobic and hydrophilic tendencies of a chemical group.
functional group	A group within a molecule that confers characteristic properties.
pyrite	A common iron ore
sickle-cell trait	A human condition recognized by the sickling of erythrocytes when exposed to low oxygen tension; occurs in individuals heterozygous for the allele responsible for sickle-cell anemia.
autopolyploidy	Polyploid in which all of the chromosome sets are derived from the same parent species.
anti-tumor drug	A drug that is capable of either stopping or slowing the abnormal growth of tissue
covalent bond	koh-VALE-unht/ A strong chemical bond where two atoms share a single pair of electrons.
mitigation	Legally mandated remediation for loss of protected species or ecosystems.
bond energy	Strength of the chemical linkage between two atoms, measured by the energy in kilocalories or kilojoules needed to break it.
trace elements	an element indispensable for life but required in extremely minimum amounts
endothorax	the internal framework or processes of the thorax.
art	Automated reagin test for syphilis.
hydrothermal vent	A warm or hot water emitting springs associated with crustal spreading centers on the sea floor.
association constant	The measure of the degree of association of a complex
dithiocarbamates	organic fungicides; dimethyl- (DMDC): thiram, ferbam, ziram; ethylene-bis- (EBDC): nabam, maneb, mancozeb, zineb.
metadata	Information about data that facilitates access and use of the data.
pectoralis	relating to the breast.
biotechnology	Use of living organisms to carry out defined physiochemical processes having industrial or other practical application.
incomplete dominance	A mode of inheritance in which the heterozygote has a phenotype that is intermediate between the phenotypes of either homozygotes
linear regression	A statistical technique of finding the best fitting straight line through a set of points representing joint values for two variables.
basal metabolism rate	minimum amount of energy required daily to support basic body functions
monotreme	n
lilacinous	lilac-colored [lilac].
neoteny	Heterochronic evolution whereby development of some or all somatic features is retarded relative to sexual maturation, resulting in sexually mature individuals with juvenile features.
adherent	attached or clinging to.
calcium phosphate	KAL-see-uhm FOSS-fate/ The compound making up 85 percent of the mineral content of bone
complement	A large group of proteins activated in sequence when cells are exposed to a foreign substance
polyribosome	See polysome.
hsf-1	Abbreviation for heat shock factor 1.
tooth fungi	members of the family Hydnaceae (Aphyllophorales: Basidiomycetes) in which the hymenium covers downwardly directed teeth.
community ecology	The study of how interactions between species affect community structure and organization.
antiretroviral therapy	The treatment of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) – or other types of retroviruses that multiply in the body – using drugs.
game theory	An approach to evaluating alternative strategies in situations where the outcome depends not only on each individual's strategy but also on the strategies of other individuals; a way of thinking about behavioral evolution in situations where the fitness of a particular behavioral phenotype is influenced by other behavioral phenotypes in the population.
felsic	Term used to describe the amount of light-colored feldspar and silica minerals in an igneous rock
cytokines	Peptide regulatory molecules that are involved in cell development and differentiation and in immune responses.
lipid peroxidation	The process by which free radicals "steal" electrons from the lipids in our cell membranes, resulting in cell damage and increased production of free radicals.
cell	Life's fundamental unit of structure and function.
molecular kinetic energy	See heat.
native structure	The 3-D structure of a protein in a living system.
homologous antigen	An antigen reacting with the antibody it had induced.
terminator	A DNA sequence that results in termination of transcription
cardiac hypertrophy	Refers to enlargement of the walls of the heart
braided river	n
antioxidant	A compound that inhibits oxidation, often because it is preferentially oxidized
laser	A device that emits an intense coherent monochromatic light beam.
flower	In an angiosperm, a short stem with up to four sets of modified leaves, bearing structures that function in sexual reproduction
frugivore	Animal which primarily eats fruit
sessile	Attached to a substrate
pulmonary circuit	The branch of the circulatory system that supplies the lungs.
dorsolum	the mesoscutum.
lactic acid bacteria	A group of gram-positive, non-sporing bacteria which carry out a lactic acid fermentation of sugars
neoclassical crosses	The F2, F2 B1 and B2 are "classical" hybrid crosses
aenescent	becoming or appearing bronzed or brassy.
aetc	AIDS Education and Training Centers
nanotechnology	technology at the atomic and molecular (nanometer) scale: 1 nanometer (nm) =1 ×10-9 m
proteasome	Large protein complex in the cytosol with proteolytic activity that is responsible for degrading proteins that have been marked for destruction by ubiquitylation or by some other means.
second law of thermodynamics	Energy tends to flow from concentrated to less concentrated forms.
red muscle	In general, a loose term referring to a vertebrate muscle that is rich in myoglobin and thus reddish in color
competition	Interaction between members of the same population or of two or more populations using the same resource, often present in limited supply.
enrichment	A condition which increases the proportion of a particular organism or mutant strain from a mixed population
leathery	having the appearance or texture of leather.
extremity	the point most remote from base.
spicule	Crystalline or mineral deposits found in sponges, sea cucumbers, or urochordates
chronic	Longer-term infection.
peptidase	An enzyme that hydrolyzes a peptide bond.
deficiency	Absence of a chromosome or chromosomal segment.
decomposition	The breakdown of dead organic material by detrivores or saprophytes.
receptacle	The base of a flower; the part of the stem that is the site of attachment of the floral organs.
vesicle	A membrane-bound structure used to shuttle molecules within the membrane.
thermal gradient	See temperature gradient.
alpha helix	A three-dimensional structure of a protein that takes on a coiled, cylindrical shape.
meta-analysis	A statistical technique for jointly analyzing the results of many studies on the same topic.
riffle habitate	A stream location with change in height of the stream bottom.
apc	see adenomatous polyposis coli; anaphase-promoting complex
meta-analysis	A method for the statistical re-analysis of experimental and correlational results from independent studies that address related research questions.
dendrobatidae	/den-droh-BAT-ə-die, -dee/ n
protoloma	the anterior margin of primaries.
ketone	An organic compound with a carbonyl group of which the carbon atom is bonded to two other carbons.
irregular	unequal, curved, bent or otherwise twisted or modified without order or symmetry, e.g
benthic	Organisms that live on the bottom of the ocean are called benthic organisms
allele frequency	Describes the commonness of an allele in a given population, i.e
affinity	Generally refers to the ability that two molecules have to bind to each other
community	All the organisms that inhabit a particular area; an assemblage of populations of different species living close enough together for potential interaction.
consensus sequence	A sequence pattern derived from the alignment of multiple sequences that represents the nucleotide or amino acid most likely to occur at each position in a sequence.
second law of thermodynamics	The second law says that no process is 100% efficient because heat is always produced
homeostasis	The processes used by the body to constantly achieve and maintain balance.
fat-soluble	Capable of being dissolved in fat.
medium	A nutrient-rich liquid used in tissue cultures.
day-neutral plant	A plant whose flowering is not affected by photoperiod.
inborn errors of metabolism	inherited diseases resulting from alterations in genes that code for enzymes.
collateral relative	Related through a common ancestor, not by a direct line of descent
temperature	A measure of the speed or intensity of the ceaseless random motions that all the atoms and molecules of any substance undergo on an atomic-molecular scale
adenosine triphosphate	The nucleotide formed by adding yet another phosphate group to the pyrophosphate group on ADP.
deamination	Loss of an amino group (NH2) from a base.
ap-1	A transcription factor that enhances the production of inflammatory mediators
seriatim	placed in longitudinal rows.
blood plasma	The part of the blood that remains after blood cells are removed; the part of the blood other than cells.
producers	Organisms that can produce their own food either by photosynthesis or chemosynthesis.
endothelial cell	Flattened cell type that forms a sheet (the endothelium) lining all blood vessels.
lunule	a lunate mark or crescent.
pulse-chase	An experiment in which a short labeling period is followed by the addition of an excess of the same, unlabeled compound to dilute out the labeled material
heat of combustion	quantity of heat energy given off when a specified amount of a substance burns in oxygen
model organism	A relatively simple organism that duplicates some critical aspect of a more complex system that would be difficult to manipulate experimentally
submolecular	A chemical component that exists at a lower level of complexity than individual molecules (electrons, ions, free radicals).
alga	Phototrophic eukaryotic microorganisms
lipodystrophy	The relocation of subcutaneous fat, commonly occurring in the extremities.
uv reactivation	A phenomenon in which survival of an ultraviolet-irradiated phage is greater upon infecting a host that has also been irradiated with UV than upon infecting a host that has not been irradiated with UV
eversible	capable of being turned inside out.
development	The recurrent sequence of progressive changes in organisms from inception to maturity.
da	Dalton unit.
demography	The study of statistics relating to births and deaths in populations.
calyculate	applied to antennae, whose cup-shaped joints are so arranged as to fit one into the other.
gram-positive	To describe a prokaryotic cell whose cell wall stains purple (positive) in Gram stain
flexuous -ose	almost zig-zag, without acute angles but more acute at angles than undulating: differs from sinuate in being alternately bent and nearly straight.
phosphorylation	The process of adding on a phosphate group to a molecule
adaptive radiation	The emergence of numerous species from a common ancestor introduced into an environment that presents a diversity of new opportunities and problems.
preflight warm-up	In an insect, warming of the flight muscles prior to flight
quencher	A substance that deactivates excited molecules by processes such as resonance energy transfer and complex formation.
carrying capacity	The theoretical maximum number of organisms in a population, usually designated by K, that can be sustained in a given environment.
cox-2	One form of the cyclooxygenase enzyme
disulfide bridge	A covalent linkage formed by oxidation between two cysteine SH groups either in the same polypeptide chain or in different polypeptide chains
branch migration	Movement of a cross bridge along two DNA molecules.
combustion	chemical process in which a fuel combines rapidly with oxygen to release energy and form products
reference gene	A gene whose expression level is used for normalization in relative quantification
molecule	two or more atoms held together by chemical bonds in a certain spatial arrangement
heterotrophs	An organism that obtains organic food molecules by eating other organisms or their by-products.
nanometer	Unit of length commonly used to measure molecules and cell organelles
drug	A substance that is used in the treatment of disease.
restriction-modification	The modification of host DNA to prevent cutting by a restriction endonuclease (see restriction endonuclease)
water mold	A common term for a member of the division Oomycota.
myosin	A protein found in muscle cells that interacts with actin to bring about muscle contraction.
heterozygous	Having two different alleles for a given genetic character
a band	In striated muscle, the region of a sarcomere that spans the length of the thick filaments
dipeptide	a compound formed from two amino acids
geminate	arranged in pairs composed of two similar parts: doubled.
excretory system	The organ system that disposes of nitrogen-containing metabolic wastes.
facilitated diffusion	The spontaneous passage of molecules and ions, bound to specific carrier proteins, across a biological membrane down their concentration gradients.
chelate	Combine reversibly, usually with high affinity, with a metal ion such as iron, calcium, or magnesium.
replicatile	capable of being folded back.
retrovirus	A family of RNA viruses that replicate by reverse transcription and then integrate into the host genome.
intracellular	occurring within the cell or in a cell.
radiant energy	the entire collection of different wavelengths, each with its own energy
parkinson's disease	A motor disorder caused by a progressive brain disease and characterized by difficulty in initiating movements, slowness of movement, and rigidity.
stop-transfer signal	Hydrophobic amino acid sequence that halts translocation of a polypeptide chain through the endoplasmic reticulum membrane, thus anchoring the protein chain in the membrane (See Figure 12–49).
squarrous	scurfy: clothed with rough scales differing in direction, standing upright, or not parallel to the surface.
logistic equation	An equation describing the idealized growth of a population subject to a density-dependent limiting factor
metalloids	elements between metals and nonmetals on the periodic table that do not fall cleanly into either group
stable equilibrium	A perturbed system returns to the same equilibrium state.
genetic banking	The deposit of an individual's genetic information to a database that enables the individual to control access.
ph	Common measure of the acidity of a solution: “p” refers to power of 10, “H” to hydrogen
fulgidus	shining.
bdelloplast	See Bdellovibrio
aerobic	Containing oxygen; referring to an organism, environment, or cellular process that requires oxygen.
caconym	KAK-uh-nim/ A taxonomic name considered bad for linguistic reasons.
proteoglycan	One or more glycosaminoglycans attached to a core protein.
eutheria	See Placentals.
histostructure	n
non-target organisms	organisms found with or near those being treated with a chemical or biological control agent; it is important that these agents have as little effect as possible on non-target organisms.
g2 phase	That period of the cell cycle between S phase and mitosis (M phase).
angustatus	narrowed; narrowly drawn out.
two-hybrid system	Technique for identifying interacting proteins using genetically engineered yeast cells.
mycetophagous	feeding upon fungi.
autoclaving	sterilization by steam under pressure (15 lb./in2) for prescribed time periods; better than dry heat, as sterilization is achieved at lower temperatures (121C).
precocial	adj
dual organisms	organisms which invariably consist of two interdependent symbionts, e.g
denaturation	Partial or complete unfolding of the specific native conformation of a polypeptide chain, protein, or nucleic acid.
pallid	pale or very pale.
ribosome	A tiny organelle in the cytoplasm of the cell that directs protein synthesis.
cadherins	An important class of cell-to-cell adhesion molecules.
testosterone	The most abundant androgen hormone in the male body.
reciprocal crosses	Pairs of genetic crosses which in one case DNA from strain #1 is transferred into strain #2 and in the second case the strain #2 is used as a donor to transfer the same region into strain #1
docking protein	A synonym for signal recognition particle receptor.
r loop	A triple-stranded structure in which RNA displaces a DNA strand by DNA-RNA hybrid formation in a region of the DNA.
campestral	applied to species inhabiting open fields.
beta sheet	Common structural motif in proteins in which different sections of the polypeptide chain run alongside each other, joined together by hydrogen bonding between atoms of the polypeptide backbone
outer membrane	The lipopolysaccharide (LPS) containing layer, containing some proteins, which surrounds the cytoplasmic membrane and forms the outermost layer of most Gram-negative bacteria
dissociation constant	Measure of the tendency of a complex to dissociate
dermal glands	hypodermal unicellular glands which secrete wax, setae, spines, etc.
inductive reasoning	A type of logic in which generalizations are based on a large number of specific observations.
phenocopy	Result of an environmental influence which mimics the effect of a specific allele not possessed by the individual; not transmissible.
spinal reflex	A reflex mediated by neural circuits of the vertebrate spinal cord.
epigenotype	A phenotype derived by mapping epigenetic parameters, such as DNA methylation.
high-level radioactive waste	products of nuclear reactions that have high levels of radioactivity and, because of the long half-lives of the radioisotopes involved, require essentially permanent isolation from the biosphere
multiplicity of infection	The ratio of virus particles to cells in a system.
glossate	furnished with a spiral tongue.
plateau phase	The nonexponential phase of PCR that occurs after many cycles, when the rate of amplification decreases.
desalination	any process that removes ions from salty water
addition polymerization	type of polymerization in which the monomers add to the growing chain in such a way that the polymer contains all the atoms of the monomer
aminoacyl—trna synthetases	A family of enzymes, at least one for each amino acid, that catalyze the attachment of an amino acid to its specific tRNA molecule.
valence shell	The outermost energy shell of an atom, containing the valence electrons involved in the chemical reactions of that atom.
sedentary	not active: settled or remaining in one place.
aldosterone	A steroid (mineralocorticoid) released from the adrenal cortex that maintains salt and fluid balance in the body
scientific notation	system for writing numbers as the product of a number and 10 raised to the appropriate power
luciferin	A compound capable of light emission during bioluminescence
sodium channels	Gated ion channels that are necessary for glutamate release
parietal lobes	Sections of the brain that are involved with cognition, information processing, spatial orientation, and the perception of stimuli related to touch, pressure, temperature and pain.
transfer rna	Any of a family of low-molecular weight RNAs that transfer amino acids from the cytoplasm to the template for protein synthesis on the ribosome.
folic acid	A B vitamin essential for production of new cells and important for the metabolism of homocysteine.
multiplex assay	A procedure for the parallel analysis of pooled samples.
synanamorph	one of two or more different anamorphs which develop simultaneously, or are otherwise known to be associated with a single teleomorph.
decumbent -ous	sloping gradually downward.
dendrimer	A branching polymer
terminal electron acceptor	The molecule that is the final acceptor of electrons in a metabolic pathway (for example, in aerobic respiration, oxygen is the terminal electron acceptor).
meristem culture	Sterile growth of meristem of angiosperm
inner nuclear membrane	The innermost of the two nuclear membranes
homotropic enzyme	An allosteric enzyme that uses its substrate as a modulator.
peptide	Two or more amino acids joined by a peptide bond.
electronegativity	measure of an atom's attraction for the electrons it shares in a covalent bond
activated complex	The molecular assembly that corresponds to the transition state of a chemical reaction.
autoimmune disease	Characterized by an abnormal immune response to a person's own (self) antigen.
chromosome	A threadlike, gene-carrying structure found in the nucleus
trehalose	A disaccharide made out of two glucose molecules that has been shown to stabilize proteins
anthropoid	A member of a primate group made up of the apes
oxygen	An element active in physiological processes and crucial to brain functioning.
mutagen	A substance or agent that causes genetic mutations.
dyad symmetry	Property of a structure that can be rotated by 180° to produce the same structure.
toadstool	see MUSHROOM, AGARIC; toadstool is a confused term -- it is assumed to refer to poisonous agarics, but many so-called toadstools are harmless; use `agaric' instead, and join the cognoscenti.
complement fixation	The consumption of complement by an antibody-antigen reaction.
n-formyl methionine	Starting amino acid in the synthesis of all bacterial polypeptides.
inosital hexaniacinate	A variation of niacin
autotroph	An organism which does not require any organic carbon for its energy source or for its growth.
visking tubing	synthetic material containing tiny pores.
article	a joint or segment.
metabolon	A supramolecular assembly of sequential metabolic enzymes.
peta-	A prefix indicating 1015; a quadrillion.
bryophyte	Mosses and liverworts, small "primitive" land plants.
anatomical dead space	In the lungs of an animal, the sum total of the conducting airways; that is, that portion of the lungs that does not participate in the exchange of respiratory gases between air and blood.
coprine	a rare amino acid found in the agaric, Coprinus atramentarius; its effects mimic those of antabuse (q.v.)
oxidative phosphorylation	The enzymatic phosphorylation of ADP to ATP coupled to electron transfer from a substrate to molecular oxygen.
ard	Acute respiratory disease.
bioluminescence	Biochemical production of light by cells.
evaporative cooling	Removal of heat by the evaporation of water
trans golgi network	The Golgi compartment within which proteins are sorted and packaged to exit the Golgi apparatus.
insertion	The movement of channel or transporter proteins from inactive intracellular locations into the membrane where they are active.
molecule	The smallest unit of matter of a substance that retains all the physical and chemical properties of that substance, consisting of a single atom or a group of atoms bonded together
iodine solution	red-brown liquid used to test for the presence of starch.
tertiary structure	In a protein or nucleic acid, the final folded form of the polymer chain.
salivary amylase	A salivary gland enzyme that hydrolyzes starch and glycogen.
lymphocyte	A type of white blood cell that is a crucial part of the immune system.
mean	Statistic that describes the center of a distribution of measurements; calculated by dividing the sum of all measurements by the number of measurements; also called the average.
lysin	An antibody that induces lysis.
euploidy	Variations that involve changes in the number of entire chromosome sets (n) (for example, 3n, 4n, 5n).
faculative anaerobes	An organism that makes ATP by aerobic respiration if oxygen is present but that switches to fermentation under anaerobic conditions.
hierarchy	A series in which each element is categorized into successive ranks or grades with each level subordinate to the one above.
decimorgan	/DES-ə-MORE-gən/ See: Morgan unit.
mitotic spindle	See mitotic apparatus.
acid	A compound that can donate a proton (H+)
organism	A living entity
proteolysis	Degradation of a protein by hydrolysis at one or more of its peptide bonds.
pregnancy	The condition of carrying one or more embryos in the uterus.
substitution mutation	A mutation caused by the replacement of one base by another.
fossil record	The chronicle of evolution over millions of years of geologic time engraved in the order in which fossils appear in rock strata
glucose	The major sugar in the body and a key molecule in energy metabolism.
post-translational modification	Covalent modification of proteins following translation, including glycosylation, phosphorylation, sulfation, acetylation, and ribosylation.
genetic marker	An observable characteristic useful for genetic analysis.
basal ganglia	In the vertebrate brain, a collection of cell groups in the ventral forebrain that organize motor behavior
game theory	A branch of economic theory devoted to modeling interactions between competing individuals or organizations
stomach	An organ of the digestive system that stores food and performs preliminary steps of digestion.
crepuscular	active or flying at dusk.
starch	A very long, branched polysaccharide, composed exclusively of glucose units, that is the primary storage carbohydrate in plant cells.
hyperthermophile	A prokaryote having a growth temperature optimum of 80 °C or higher.
leukotriene	A powerful inflammatory mediator
inbreeding	The mating of individuals that are closely related genetically.
recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa	A blistering skin condition in which the filaments that anchor the epidermis to the underlying dermis are either absent or do not function
n-terminus	The end of the amino acid chain that makes up a protein that is terminated by an amino group (-NH2).
amino-terminal residue	The only amino acid residue in a polypeptide chain with a free a-amino group; defmes the amino terminus of the polypeptide.
indirect	applied to metamorphosis = complete.
ribonucleic acid	Polymer of nucleotides connected via a phosphate-ribose backbone, involved in protein synthesis.
mold	A rapidly growing fungus that reproduces asexually by producing spores.
enriched uranium	uranium that has a higher percent of U-235 than its natural abundance of about 0.7%
small intracellular mediator	see second messenger
parallel	along the same line and nearly equidistant.
irb	Institutional Review Board
nonsense mutation	A mutation that changes a sense codon into one which does not code for an amino acid.
chlamydospore	Thick-walled resting structure that forms from the cell wall of a fungal hypha; usually formed under conditions where the hypha is no longer able to function optimally.
aerobic	Referring to a cell, organism, or metabolic process that utilizes O2 or that can grow in the presence of O2.
chemical group	Set of covalently linked atoms, such as a hydroxyl group (–OH) or an amino group (–NH2), the chemical behavior of which is well characterized.
transpiration	Water loss by evaporation from a plant, especially through the stomates on the leaves.
microarray	Arrangement of miniaturised test sites on a small surface; spot sizes are usually less than 250µm
microarrays	Ordered sets of DNA fragments fixed to solid surfaces
pneumonia	An inflammation of the lungs that can be caused by infection or other environmental irritants.
calvin cycle	The second of two major stages in photosynthesis (following the light reactions), involving atmospheric CO2 fixation and reduction of the fixed carbon into carbohydrate.
dorsoventral	Describes the axis running from the back to the belly of an animal or from the upper side to the underside of a structure.
intercostal muscles	Sheetlike muscles that run between adjacent ribs, the contraction of which expands or contracts the volume of the rib cage.
exergonic reaction	A spontaneous chemical reaction in which there is a net release of free energy
fission	The separation of a parent into two or more individuals of approximately equal size
radioactivity	spontaneous emission of radiation by certain elements
compatible	able to undergo sexual fusion: of opposite mating types.
heterogeny	the alternation of sexual and parthenogenetic generations.
biochemical oxygen demand	Amount of dissolved oxygen consumed in five days by biological processes breaking down organic matter.
thalloid	Plants which have no roots, stems, or leaves are called thalloid, such as liverworts and hornworts.
bacteriostatic	Capable of inhibiting bacterial growth without killing.
fixation	Event defined by an allele at a particular locus reaching a frequency of one in the population
chloramphenicol	An antibiotic that inhibits protein synthesis by binding to the 50s ribosomal subunit and blocking the peptidyltransferase reaction
oviform	egg-shaped.
atrophied	wasted away; unfit for use.
parallel	In reference to the arrangement of parts in an electrical circuit, vascular system, or other analogous system in which substances flow from place to place, the parts of the system are in parallel if one path of flow branches to give rise to two or more paths in which the parts reside, so that only a fraction of the total flow passes through any one of the parts
discoideous	=discoidal.
prophage	The state of the genome of a temperate virus when it is replicating in synchrony with that of the host, typically integrated into the host genome.
archaebacteria	An older term for the Archaea.
capsular	in the form of a capsule or little cup-like container.
histogram	A graphic representation of a frequency distribution.
krebs cycle	See tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle.
parapatric	Geographically adjacent species or populations whose distributions do not overlap but are in contact at one or more of their mutual boundaries.
negative control	Repression of biological activity by the presence of a specific molecule.
leukemia	Cancer of white blood cells and their precursors.
oxidation	A process by which a compound gives up electrons, acting as an electron donor, and becomes oxidized.
g	see free energy
diagnose	To determine the nature of a pathological condition; to recognize a disease.
organ	A specialized center of body function composed of several different types of tissues.
ecological niche	The environmental habitat of a population or species, including the resources it uses and its interactions with other organisms
biological control	see BIOCONTROL.
edge effects	Impacts of one habitat on an adjacent habitat.
cell theory	One of the four (or five) unifying concepts in biology
tissue culture	A technique used to grow body tissue outside the body on a culture medium.
glucagon	A hormone produced by the pancreas that stimulates the break down of glycogen and the release of glucose into the blood stream.
tgn	see trans Golgi network (TGN)
flavin-linked dehydrogenases	Dehydrogenases requiring one of the riboflavin coenzymes, FMN or FAD.
cation	an ion with a positive charge produced by the loss of one or more electrons
narrow-sense heritability	Proportion of the phenotypic variance that can be attributed to additive genetic variance.
hydroxyl group	A functional group consisting of a hydrogen atom joined to an oxygen atom by a polar covalent bond
race	A poorly defined term for a set of populations occupying a particular region that differ in one or more characteristics from populations elsewhere; equivalent to subspecies
glycolysis	The catabolic conversion of glucose to pyruvate with the production of ATP.
organic molecule	A molecule consisting of carbon, hydrogen and often oxygen and other elements
calcium	An essential element that is obtained through food
consumers	The higher levels in a food pyramid
exponential population growth	The geometric increase of a population as it grows in an ideal, unlimited environment
transforming principle	Substance responsible for transformation
fluorescence	Light of a specific range of wavelengths that is emitted from a molecule previously excited by energy of a different range of wavelengths
avidity	A measure of the affinity of the binding of an antibody to an antigen.
parthenogenetic	see asexual.
polar covalent bond	A bond involving atoms that have a relatively strong tendency to grab electrons and atoms with a tendency to give up electrons
pistillate	Pertaining to the pistil
acid rain	rain that is more acidic than "normal" rain and that has a lower pH
monomer	Any small molecule that can be linked with others of the same type to form a polymer
aids	Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome.
cruciately-septate	describes the basidia of order Tremellales (Phragmobasidiomycetes) which are divided into four more or less equal parts by vertical cross-walls.
glycan	Another term for polysaccharide; a polymer of monosaccharide units joined by glycosidic bonds.
terrane	n
competitive inhibition	A type of enzyme inhibition reversed by increasing the substrate concentration; a competitive inhibitor generally competes with the normal substrate or ligand for a protein's binding site.
scabriculous	regularly and finely wrinkled.
eutrophication	The process in which an aquatic system becomes overloaded with nutrients, thereby increasing its organic productivity and causing an accumulation of debris.
countercurrent	Referring to two fluids flowing in opposite directions.
tubal ligation	A means of sterilization in which a woman's two oviducts (Fallopian tubes) are tied closed to prevent eggs from reaching the uterus
jointed	When stiff body parts are connected by a soft flexible region, the body is said to be jointed.
directed mutagenesis	/myoot-ə-JEN-ə-səs/ Alteration of DNA at a specific site in order to study the change's effects.
brackish water	Water that is intermediate in salinity between seawater and freshwater
translocation	Aberration caused by the change in location of a segment of a chromosome.
hypopharyngeal	relating to the hypopharynx.
nitric oxide	A gas where each molecule is made of one nitrogen atom and one oxygen atom; it is found in many brain and body tissues, and plays a part in many bodily functions.
cladistics	A classification method that constructs phylogenies using characteristics unique to each taxonomic group.
energetic hypothesis	The concept that the length of a food chain is limited by the inefficiency of energy transfer along the chain.
hair follicle	tubelike pocket of epidermal cells that extends into the dermis and produces hair.
suicide ideation	Thoughts about fatally harming one's self
competitive exclusion principle	The concept that when the populations of two species compete for the same limited resources, one population will use the resources more efficiently and have a reproductive advantage that will eventually lead to the elimination of the other population.
vermicular	worm-like, tortuous: resembling the tracks of a worm.
glucogenic amino acids	Amino acids with carbon chains that can be metabolically converted into glucose or glycogen via gluconeogenesis.
sol	A mixture involving a solvent such as water and very large molecules or groups of molecules that are mixed into the solvent
gel	An inert polymer, usually made of agarose or polyacrylamide, used for separating macromolecules such as nucleic acids or proteins by electrophoresis.
sequestration enabling reagent	A reagent that sequesters starting materials or reaction by-products, in order to simplify removal from a reaction mixture.
pseudothecial ascoma	ascoma containing bitunicate asci; often resembling a perithecial ascoma, though developing differently.
anaerobic	Able to grow in the absence of free or atmospheric oxygen.
dorsal	Relating to the back of an animal
mutagenesis	A process that leads to a change in the genetic material that is inherited in later generations.
splitter	one who splits or describes species or genera upon minute characters which the "Lumper" (q.v.) deems insufficient to authorize them.
nitrogen-fixing bacteria	Microorganisms that restock nitrogenous minerals in the soil by converting nitrogen to ammonia.
celsius scale	A temperature scale (°C) equal to 5/9 (°F – 32) that measures the freezing point of water at 0°C and the boiling point of water at 100°C.
bacteria	One of two prokaryotic domains, the other being Archaea.
parabronchi	The smallest-diameter tubes in the lungs of a bird
granulocyte	A white blood cell containing large granules.
? stereoisomers	Compounds that have the same composition and the same order of atomic connections, but different molecular arrangements.
regeneration	The regrowth of body parts from pieces of an organism.
leader	A short sequence near the amino terminus of a protein or the 5' end of an RNA that has a specialized targeting or regulatory function.
antagonist***	An antagonist is a drug or a compound that opposes the physiological effects of another
chromatography	A procedure for separating chemically similar molecules
convergence	Similarities which have arisen independently in two or more organisms that are not closely related
self assembly	The concept that certain molecules can organize themselves spontaneously into more complex forms
radix	base of wings, and their point of insertion; see pteropega.
accessory glands	any glands opening into the ducts of the reproductive system.
chemical reaction	A process leading to chemical changes in matter; involves the making and/or breaking of chemical bonds.
swarming	the concerted departure from a hive of a large number of worker bees, accompanied by a queen; this forming the nucleus of a new colony.
facultative	Organisms that can grow under different conditions
plasma cell	An antibody-secreting B-lymphocyte.
transition state	A high energy state through which substrates must pass during the course of an enzymatic reaction.
biogenesis	the production of life from antecedent life.
stereoisomer	A mirror image form of a molecule
molecular weight	Numerically, the same as the relative molecular mass of a molecule expressed in daltons
nervi	belonging or referring to the nerves.
gi	see inhibitory G protein
conductivity meter	an apparatus that produces a signal to indicate that electricity is being conducted
coalescence	Derivation of the gene copies in one or more populations from a single ancestral copy, viewed retrospectively (from the present back into the past).
magic mushrooms	typically, hallucinogen-containing species of Psilocybe, but also spp
translational control	The regulation of a protein's synthesis by regulation of the rate of its translation on the ribosome.
intermediate	lying between others in position or possessing characters between two other forms.
posterior	tail end
smooth endoplasmic reticulum	a system of membranous tubes and sacs that functions in lipid synthesis.
eubacteria	Class of prokaryotes that constitutes one of the three distinct evolutionary lineages of modern-day organisms; also called the true bacteria or simply bacteria
f-pilus	A filamentous appendage encoded by the F-plasmid
volcanism	n
mycoinsecticide	a preparation of entomopathogenic fungi used to kill insects.
cohesion	the bringing together of two molecules
clearance	See plasma clearance.
cofactor	Inorganic ion or coenzyme necessary for the activity of an enzyme.
trichome	A trichome is a row of cells which have remained attached to one another following successive cell divisions
neurodegeneration	The deterioration or loss of function of nerve cells.
diversifying selection	Selection favoring both extremes or two or more diverse phenotypes.
stereoisomer	A molecule that is a mirror image of another molecule with the same molecular formula.
culture	The learned behaviors and practices common to a social group.
apiculate	covered with fleshy, short points.
chemotaxis	Movement toward or away from a chemical.
dd	Dideoxy-.
translation	The process by which the protein molecule is formed from the mRNA blueprint.
compact bone	The outer dense layer that forms the shaft of the long bones; made up of concentric layers of mineral deposits surrounding a central opening.
li 1379	A Ginkgo biloba extract.
endemic	occurring normally where found: native, not introduced.
promoter region	A DNA sequence that is recognized and bound by an RNA polymerase (enzyme) during the initiation of transcription.
blood pressure	The hydrostatic force that blood exerts against the wall of a vessel.
alligate -us	fastened or suspended by a thread; like the chrysalis of Papilio, etc.
partial pressure	(1) The pressure exerted by a particular gas within a mixture of gases
cenozoic era	The period of geologic time beginning after the end of the Mesozoic Era
ca2+	See "calcium ions".
dilution	much thinned out or diluted.
vector	A vector is a self-replicating DNA molecule (DNA vector, lambda cloning vector, plasmid cloning vector) that transfers a DNA segment between host cells; sometimes it is also called a "vehicle"
etiolated	(of plants) excessively tall and lacking chlorophyll.
undernourishment	A diet that is chronically deficient in calories.
new indication studies	New phase II and III trials required when a drug seems promising as a new treatment for a different condition than it was originally approved for.
cocurrent	Referring to two fluids flowing in the same direction
altruism	Behavior that benefits the reproductive success of other individuals because of an actual or potential sacrifice of reproductive success by the altruist.
androgen receptor	Receptors that have binding sites for the steroid androgen
nucleus	a part of the cell containing DNA and RNA and responsible for growth and reproduction
antioxidant	compound added to foods, drugs, and cosmetics to minimize the oxidation of unsaturated oils and fats that can cause rancidity, color loss, and flavor changes
congenital	Existing at birth, referring to certain mental or physical traits, malformations, or diseases, which may be hereditary or due to an influence occurring during gestation (in utero).
incurved -ate	bowed or curved inwards.
cysteine	A semi-essential amino acid.
algorithm	An explicit computational procedure that uses a precise sequence of simple operations to perform a complex operation
rolling circle replication	A mechanism for the replication of circular DNA
progeny	The offspring of parents or often offspring of a sire or dam.
energy	A capacity to do work.
kearns-sayre syndrome	A rare mitochondrial disorder that usually has an onset before the age of 20
cercus	see cerci.
oxidation-reduction	Reactions in which electrons are transferred from one atom or molecule (the reducing agent that is oxidized by the loss of electrons) to another (the oxidizing agent that is reduced by the gain of electrons)
dystonia	Prolonged muscle contractions.
tissue culture	Process of growing some part of a plant or animal on an artificial medium.
lanugo	slender single hairs.
apophysis	The swelling of a sporangiophore immediately below the columella.
collarette	the often flaring wall of a phialide distal to the conidiogenous locus.
genes	Tiny biochemical structures inside each cell that determine particular hereditary traits, such as eye color and blood type
cellular respiration	the intracellular, energy-producing process by which a cell obtains oxygen, distributes it to the mitochondria, uses it for oxidation of 6-carbon sugar and gives off carbon dioxide
polyethylene glycol	A water-soluble polymer used to solubilize proteins, and as a cell fusogen.
phosphatidylinositol	An inositol phospholipid
tissue	A group of similar cells organized into a functional unit.
community	A group of interacting species that inhabit a particular location at a particular time.
osmoregulation	How organisms regulate solute concentrations and balance the gain and loss of water.
deoxyribonucleic acid	See DNA.
biodiversity	Genetic and phenotypic variation both within and among species, plus the variety of ecosystems created by these species.
syndrome	A pattern of recognizable symptoms or signs characteristic of a disease.
rfu	Relative fluorescence units; a unit of fluorescence intensity measured by a real-time PCR detection system.
physical therapist	A specialist trained in the treatment of diseases and injury through exercise and physical activities.
crm	Cross reacting material
polymerase	An enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of a polymer from monomers.
apical ectodermal ridge	A limb-bud organizer region consisting of a thickened area of ectoderm at the tip of a limb bud.
solution	A homogeneous, liquid mixture of two or more substances.solvent The dissolving agent of a solution
positive selection	Selection for an allele that increases fitness.
crura cerebri	two large cords that connect the supra- with the sub-oesophageal ganglion.
volatile fatty acids	See short-chain fatty acids.
nano-	Prefix denoting 10–9.
taxis	A taxis is behavior consisting of a directed movement of the whole organism toward or away from a stimulus.
primer	A structure that serves as a growing point for polymerization
duple	double, or twice.
anticonvulsant	Preventing or relieving convulsions
bicaudate	having two tails or anal processes.
herpes virus	A virus group that includes the Epstein-Barr Virus and Herpes Simplex.
edible vaccine	A vaccine based on the engineered expression of an antigenic protein by an edible plant
contact-dependent signaling	Cell–cell communication in which the signal molecule remains bound to the signaling cell and only influences cells that physically contact it.
biomass	Living material.
intercalation	Insertion between two stacked aromatic or planar rings; for example, the insertion of a planar molecule between two successive bases in a nucleic acid.
ribozyme	An RNA molecule that can catalyze a chemical reaction.
fluorescent protein	An autofluorescent protein that is used as a reporter molecule, for example, green fluorescent protein (GFP).
chlorophyll	The major photosynthetic pigment of plant cells.
binomial nomenclature	n
essential character	see specific character.
alveoli	One of the dead-end, muliolobed air sacs that constitute the gas exchange surface of the lungs
first law of thermodynamics	the statement that energy is neither created nor destroyed, also called the law of conservation of energy
allelopathy	A form of interference competition in which individuals of one species release toxins that harm individuals of other species.
salt	A synonym for inorganic ion, or a compound formed by inorganic ions.
partition coefficient	A constant that expresses the ratio in which a given solute will be partitioned or distributed between two given immiscible liquids at equilibrium.
rorulentum	dusty: =pulverulent: q.v.
carbonic anhydrase	An enzyme that accelerates the conversion of CO2 and H2O into HCO3– and H+, or the reverse reaction.
excision repair	DNA repair in which a damaged region is replaced.
3'-terminus	The end of a polynucleotide which carries the hydroxyl group attached to the 3' position of the sugar.
multiplicate	with many longitudinal folds or lines of plication.
alpha diversity	Within-habitat diversity.
hypersaline	adj
trans golgi network	Network of interconnected cisternae and tubules at the trans face of the Golgi apparatus, through which material is transferred out of the Golgi.
moraine	n
intra-	within: between.
substrate	A molecule that an enzyme binds and acts upon.
native conformation	The biologically active conformation of a macromolecule.
aspect	indicates the direction to which a surface faces or in which it is viewed; it may be dorsal, ventral, caudal, cephalic or lateral.
f	See Inbreeding coefficient.
double helix	DNA model discovered by Watson and Crick consisting of antiparallel strands of DNA wound into a right-handed spiral and held together by hydrogen bonds.
nonreplicative transposition	Type of transposition in which a transposable element excises from an old site and moves to a new site, resulting in no net increase in the number of copies of the transposable element.
nanomole	One billionth mole; 10-9 mole.
cryptobiosis	Latent life
notched	indented, cut or nicked; usually a margin.
nicotinic acid	Also known as niacin.
siphon	Opening in molluscs or in urochordates which draws water into the body cavity
alkaline	Term pertaining to a highly basic, as opposed to acidic, subtance
dendroid	tree or shrub-like: branching like a tree or shrub.
osmoregulation	The control of water balance in organisms living in hypertonic, hypotonic, or terrestrial environments.
transduction	Genetic exchange in bacteria that is mediated via phage.
troposphere	region of the atmosphere that lies directly above the surface of the Earth
neutralization	chemical reaction in which the hydrogen ions from an acid combine with the hydroxide ions from a base to form molecules of water
cartilage	A type of flexible connective tissue with an abundance of collagenous fibers embedded in chondroitin sulfate.
v1/v2 loop	The gp120 protein has eleven defined loop segments, five of which are termed variable (designated V1V5)
alien's rule	The generalization that warm-blooded animals (mammals) tend to have shorter extremities (for example, ears and tail) in colder climates than they have in warmer climates.
metals	elements that are shiny and conduct electricity and heat well
active transport	energy-requiring process that moves material across a cell membrane against a concentration difference.
detrivore	/DET-trə-vore/ n
chemical bond	An attraction between two atoms resulting from a sharing of outer-shell elctrons or the presence of opposite charges on the atoms; the bonded atoms gain complete outer electron shells.
vestigial organ	A structure of marginal, if any, importance to an organism
excitotoxins	Variants of common proteins that are found in most living things
nonenveloped virus	Virus consisting of a nucleic acid core and protein capsid only.
acuminate	Tapering to a narrow tip.
follicle cell	One of the cell types that surround a developing oocyte or egg.
recurrent mutation	Mutational event with characteristic mutation rates.
aromatase	The enzyme that converts androgens such as testosterone to estrogens such as estradiol.
cytochrome	Colored, heme-containing protein that transfers electrons during cellular respiration and photosynthesis.
antigen	Substance capable of inducing the production of antibodies.
casparian strip	In plants, an impermeable waxy layer between the cells of the
lipoate	A vitamin for some microorganisms; an intermediate carrier of hydrogen atoms and acyl groups in α-keto acid dehydrogenases.
alkaliphilic	Growing best under alkaline conditions.
nitric acid	A chemical that increases blood flow; also used to make organic compounds in the body.
photobiology	The study of the effects of light on living systems.
yotta-	A prefix indicating 1024; a septillion.
nearctic	temperate and arctic North America, including Greenland.
demographic transition	A shift from zero population growth in which birth rates and death rates are high to zero population growth characterized instead by low birth and death rates.
binomial	Consisting of or pertaining to two terms.
lophotrichous	Having a tuft of polar flagella.
afferent	Going toward
ontogeny	The unfolding of development in an individual organism.
polymer	A long molecule consisting of many simi1ar or identical monomers linked together.
disciform	formed or shaped like a disc.
mrna	See messenger RNA.
metamorphosis	n
panmixis	Random mating.
protuberant	rising or produced above the surface or general level.
enzyme	A protein that catalyzes chemical reactions.
extension	Movement of an appendage so that the angle of the joint increases.
plasma membrane	The membrane that holds fluid within animal cells
acid deposition	deposition of either wet forms or dry forms such as rain, snow, fog, and cloud-like suspensions of microscopic water droplets often more acidic and damaging than acid rain
strain	An organism that is geneticaly different from others of the same species
anaerobic	An adjective used to describe an environment or a condition which is free of oxygen or to describe a microorganism which can grow in the absence of oxygen.
cytostatic	Inhibiting or suppressing cellular growth and multiplication.
desiccation	/deh-sick-KAY-shən/ n
fermate	feathered or bearing feather-like processes.
hts	High throughput screening
combichem	Informal term for combinatorial chemistry.
wart	An epidermal tumor of viral origin
proteolysis	The degradation of proteins to peptides or amino acids catalyzed by proteases.
species-area curve	The biodiversity pattern, first noted by Alexander von Humboldt, that illustrates that the larger the geographic area of a community, the greater the number of species.
superciliary	placed above the eyes.
viable	The ability of an organism to grow and divide.
equilibrium constant	An expression of chemical equilibrium under defined conditions
resupinate	upside down; horizontally reversed.
heat	type of energy released during respiration
polyspermy block	The process that prevents the egg cell or the central cell from being fertilized by more than one sperm cell
tumor-suppressor genes	genes that normally restrain cell growth but, when missing or inactivated by mutation, allow cells to grow uncontrolled.
guttate	with light spots or drops on a dark ground.
buffer	A substance that consists of acid and base forms in solution and that minimizes changes in pH when extraneous acids or bases are added to the solution.
detritus	Accumulated organic debris from dead organisms, often an important source of nutrients in a food web.
planate	with a flattened surface.
cognitive ethology	The scientific study of cognition; the study of the connection between data processing by nervous systems and animal behavior.
pre-b cell	Iimmediate precursor of a B cell.
rufous	brick-red [chronic yellow + dragon's blood].
conglomerate	congregated; massed together.
d	(1) aspartic acid; (2) Devonian Period.
phospholipid	An important constituent of cell membranes that is composed mainly of fatty acids.
concordance	Percentage of twin pairs in which both twins have a particular trait.
self-form	The idea that an ecosystem could form a stable climax community.
homeobox	A conserved DNA sequence of 180 base pairs encoding a protein domain found in many proteins that play a regulatory role in development.
tentorium	a chitinous frame-work within the head, upon which the brain rests.
domain	A distinot structural unit of a polypeptide; domains may have separate functions and may fold as independent, compact units.
luteo -testaceous	dark clay yellow.
inter-articular	the membranous tissue between joints or segments.
anchorage dependence	Dependence of cell growth on attachment to a substratum.
striatal neurons	Nerve cells that make up the striatum
destitutus	wanting; being without.
lectin	Any protein that binds tightly to specific sugars
multiplexing	In PCR, the process of amplifying more than one target sequence in a single reaction tube.
monoclonal antibody	Any of a preparation of antibodies that have been produced by a single clone of cultured cells and thus are all specific for the same epitope.
acidophilic	Growing best under acidic conditions.
speciation	The origin of new species in evolution.
carboxyl terminus	The end of a polypeptide chain that carries a free α-carbonyl group.
catabolite repression	Transcription-level inhibition of a variety of inducible enzymes by glucose or other readily used carbon source.
electroelution	The transfer of biomolecules from an electrophoresis gel to a membrane surface.
half sib	Brother or sister having one parent in common
intracellular	Inside a cell.
nk cells	Natural Killer Cells
energy	The capacity to do work by moving matter against an opposing force.
adenine	One of the four nitrogenous bases found in DNA; pairs with the base thymine; often abbreviated as the letter "A"; see Figure B-3.
myotonia	Increased muscle tension.
micropyles	minute openings in the egg, through which spermatozoa enter.
metamorphosis dimidio	an incomplete transformation.
matter	Anything that takes up space and has mass.
pollinigerous	= polliniferous: q.v.
armatus	set with spines, claws or other chitinous processes.
adsorption	Retention of gas, liquid, solid or a dissolved substance on a surface due to positive interaction (attraction) between the surface and the molecules of the adsorbed material
rofecoxib	A COX-2 inhibitor.
griscent	ashen gray.
coenzyme	an organic molecule, which plays an accessory role in enzyme-catalyzed processes, often by acting as a donor or acceptor of a substance involved in the reaction; ATP and NAD are common coenzymes.
flavin nucleotides	Nucleotide coenzymes (FMN and FAD) containing riboflavin.
sub-aduncate	somewhat hooked or curved.
trans-sulfuration pathway	A two-reaction pathway which degrades homocysteine.
precursor	a substance that precedes and is the source of another substance.
plankton	n
temporary vacuole	small changeable cavity containing food or water found in some types of animal cell.
extracellular digestion	The breakdown of food outside cells
derived character	A character whose structure or form differs (apomorphic) from that of the ancestral stock.
enzyme	A protein or RNA that catalyzes a biological reaction.
cubital nerve or vein	see cubits.
fallopian tube	See Oviduct.
sand	Soil particle between 0.05 and 2.0 mm in diameter.
old earth creationist	A believer in OEC
nematocera	= nemocera; q
oxidation	The loss of electrons from a compound.
emergent properties	New properties that emerge with each step upward in the hierarchy of life, owing to the arrangement and interactions of parts as complexity increases.
heavy chain	The heavier of the two types of immunoglogulin chains.
homeodomain	The protein domain encoded by the homeobox.
lamarckian inheritance	The concept that the phenotype of an organism is itself hereditary: that characters acquired or lost during the life experience of an organism, as well as characters that organisms attempt to acquire in order to meet environmental needs, can be transmitted to offspring
poly-l lactic acid	A synthetic polymer made from "natural components" used to replace volume
exponential	Referring to a type of relationship between two variables in which the dependent variable goes up in multiplicative steps as the independent variable goes up in additive steps
coagulum	a clotted mass, as of blood.
generation	Cohort of individuals born and living at the same time.
pulvinatus	moderately convex.
notch	Receptor protein involved in many instances of choice of cell fate in animal development, for example in the specification of nerve cells from ectodermal epithelium
wild-type allele	Any of the normal alleles of a gene present in a natural population.
autochthonous	Indigenous or normally found in a particular area.
helix destabilizing protein	A protein that binds single-stranded DNA.
lipoxygenase	An enzyme that plays a pivotal role in the synthesis of inflammatory mediators known as leukotrienes.
conditional mutation	Expressed only under certain conditions.
endergonic	A chemical reaction requiring input of energy to proceed.
pericarp	The thickened wall of a fruit.
osmosis	Net movement of water molecules across a semipermeable membrane driven by a difference in concentration of solute on either side
x-over	An abbreviation for cross-over.
pinnately compound	Leaves which are divided up like a feather are said to be pinnately compound.
excretion	the act of getting rid of waste products: any material or substance produced by any secretory glands or structures and which is voided or otherwise sent out from them.
ascus	(pl
acid-neutralizing capacity	capacity of a lake or other body of water to resist a decrease in pH
melatonin	A compound that is believed to decrease the presence of beta-amyloid fibrils, but has little or no success in inhibiting huntingtin protein aggregation.
acetyl coa	Small, water-soluble metabolite comprising an acetyl group linked to coenzyme A (CoA); formed during oxidation of pyruvate, fatty acids, and amino acids
incumbent	lying one over another: wings when they cover the dorsal horizontally.
latent heat of vaporization	The heat that must be provided to convert a material from a liquid to a gas at constant temperature (called latent because although heat is provided, the temperature of the material does not rise)
lamin	see nuclear lamin
m6p	see mannose 6-phosphate
cocoon-breaker	structures or processes of the pupa, often on the head, by means of which it works its way out of the cocoon.
maximum tolerated dose	The highest daily dose of a drug that the average human body can tolerate before passing a threshold level of excessive toxicity
reinforcement	Evolution of enhanced reproductive isolation between populations due to natural selection for greater isolation.
dimerous	having only two tarsal joints.
typology	The study of organic diversity based on the principle that all members of a taxonomic group conform to a basic plan, and variation among them is of little or no significance
alpha-tocotrienol	One of the eight different forms of vitamin E
antigen	Substances that can elicit an adaptive immune response and that can react specifically with the corresponding antibodies or T cell receptors.
neuroprotective	The property of preventing damage and degeneration to nerve cells.
conjugate acid-base pair	A proton donor and its corresponding deprotonated species; for example, acetic acid (donor) and acetate (acceptor).
induced fit model	The induced fit model says that the sites on enzymes or receptor molecules where substrate molecules will alter their shape slightly to accommodate the substrate molecules
monarsenous	that kind of union where one male suffices for many females.
somatic	Refers to body
inverted repeats	Sequences on the same strand that are inverted and complementary.
ccd camera	A camera that uses CCD (charge coupled device) chips to convert photons to electrical or digital information.
radioactive dating	The dating of rocks by measuring the proportions of a radioactive element in an igneous intrusion and the isotopes produced by its radioactive decay
colligative properties	The properties of an aqueous solution that depend simply on the number of dissolved entities per unit of volume, rather than on the chemical nature of the dissolved entities
micelle	The structure formed by amphipathic molecules in solution that places the polar group toward the solution and the hydrophobic group toward the interior.
chylomicron	One of the small intracellular globules composed of fats that are mixed with cholesterol and coated with special proteins.
shade	a cloudy, ill-defined streak or band.
reducing sugar	A sugar in which the carbonyl (anomeric) carbon is not involved in a glycosidic bond and can therefore undergo oxidation.
plasma membrane	The lipid bilayer membrane that forms the boundary of a cell.
vestigial	Occurring in a rudimentary condition as a result of evolutionary reduction from a more elaborated, functional character state in an ancestor.
ferrobacteria	Bacteria that utilize iron as an energy source.
fever	A rise of body temperature above the normal.
nucleus	cellular structure that divides during mitosis; controls cell activities.
fas protein	Membrane-bound receptor that initiates apoptosis in the receptor-bearing cell after binding to its ligand (Fas ligand).
glycerol	An alcohol with three hydroxyl groups
binary fission	prokaryotes cell division
asplenia	Absence of the spleen, either congenitally (at birth) or later, often seen in persons with long-standing sickling disease
protein	Any of a number of naturally occurring complex substances (such as enzymes or antibodies) involved in essential life functions.
environmental	See ambient.
antitoxin	An antibody that specifically interacts with and neutralizes a toxin
inconspicuous	not attracting attention or quickly noticeable.
endangered species	A species that is in danger of extinction throughout all or a significant portion of its range.
chromatography	A process used for separating mixtures by virtue of different affinities of substances for various media, such as paper, gas, or gelatin.
disulfide bridge	A covalent cross link between two polypeptide chains formed by a cystine residue (two Cys residues).
density-dependent factor	Any factor influencing population regulation that has a greater impact as population density increases.
bioprecursor prodrug	A bioprecursor prodrug is a prodrug that does not imply the linkage to a carrier group, but results from a molecular modification of the active principle itself
cathodoluminescence	n
control	copy of an experiment in which all factors are kept exactly the same except the one being investigated in the original experiment.
cell strain	A population of cultured cells, of plant or animal origin, that has a finite life span, in contrast to a cell line
auxotroph	A mutant that will only grow when a particular nutritional requirement (e.g
okazaki fragment	A short segment of single-stranded DNA that is an intermediate in DNA synthesis
chaperonin	A protein that aids in the correct folding of other proteins and the assembly of multisubunit structures.
cerebroside	Sphingolipid containing one sugar residue as a head group.
ion-exchange resin	A polymeric resin that contains fixed charged groups; used in chromatographic columns to separate ionic compounds.
x-ray diffraction	crystallography technique that generates a pattern of deflected X-rays passing through a crystal to reveal the nature of the crystal lattice
nucleus	(1) An atom's central core, containing protons and neutrons
isotope	An atom with a different number of neutrons but the same number of protons than another atom
lipid	One of a family of compounds, including fats, phospholipids, and steroids, that are insoluble in water.
homozygosity	The frequency of homozygous genotypes, often symbolized as P or Q.
herbivore	Literally, an organism that eats plants or other autotrophic organisms
annellide	A cell that produces and extrudes conidia; the tip tapers, lengthens, and acquires a ring of cell wall material as each conidium is released; oil immersion magnification may be required to see the rings.
trace element	A chemical element required by an organism in only trace amounts.
neural network	A computational method for optimizing for a desired property based on previous learning cycles (training).
diffusion	the tendency of molecules of any substance to spread out in the available space it is driven by intrinsic kinetic energy (thermal motion or heat) of molecules
continuous variation	Variation where characters are divided by small differences in metric or quantitative values across a continuum, not by counts in broadly specified classifications such as coat colors.
rarefaction	Monte Carlo resampling approach to develop a curve to identify and allow comparisons among samples using the minimum sample size of all the collections.
density independent	The dependence of population growth on factors (climatic changes, meteorite impacts, and so on) unrelated to the numbers of individuals in a particular locality.
carboxyl-terminal residue	The only amino acid residue in a polypeptide chain with a free α-carboxyl group; defines the carboxyl terminus of the polypeptide.
metamorphic rock	Rock that has been subjected to high but nonmelting temperatures and pressures, causing chemical and physical changes.
supra-orbital	situated above the eye.
hyperaccumulators	Plants containing extremely large amounts of certain chemical elements (frequently metals or metallic compounds).
dark reactions	The series of reactions that convert carbon dioxide and water to carbohydrates during photosynthesis
elasmobranch fish	Sharks, skates, and rays.
divided attention	the ability to split one's attention between more than one task
cohesion-adhesion theory	Describes the properties of water that help move it through a plant
virulence	The relative ability of an organism to cause disease.
aerobic	(i) Having molecular oxygen as a part of the environment
receptacle	the head of the stinkhorns (Phallales), bearing the slimy gleba.
indigote	a very deep indigo blue.
amyloid	Proteins with beta sheet structure that form extracellular aggregates.
venules	the branches of the main veins.
map kinase	Protein kinase that is activated in response to cell stimulation by many different growth factors and that mediates cellular responses by phosphorylating specific target proteins.
geometric isomer	One of several organic compounds that have the same molecular formula but differ in the spatial arrangements of their atoms.
assurgent	down-curved at base, then upcurved to an erect position.
continental islands	Islands which have broken off from a mainland.
snp	Single nucleotide polymorphism
photosynthetic phosphorylation	See photophosphorylation.
plump	with full, rounded outlines; not obese.
hydroxyapatite	A calcium phosphate gel used, in the case of nucleic acids, to selectively absorb duplex DNA-RNA from a mixture of single-stranded and duplex nucleic acids.
primer	A short oligomer (of sugars or nucleotides, for example) to which an enzyme adds additional monomeric subunits.
supra-anal	situated above the anus.
"doping"	process of intentionally adding small amounts of other elements to pure silicon
estuary	The area where a freshwater stream or river merges with the ocean
oogenesis	Formation and maturation of oocytes in the ovary.
nucleic acid	A polymer of nucleotides linked by phosphodiester bonds
systemic acquired resistance	(SAR)
alkaloids	Nitrogen-containing organic compounds of plant origin; often basic, and having intense biological activity.
branch migration	A "zipper-like" pairing of two homologous DNA strands during genetic recombination.
hydrophobic	Nonpolar; describing molecules or groups that are insoluble in water.
escarpment	n
fingerprint	Any technique that enables the identification of substances by the comparison of patterns
ramification	the branching out in every direction.
three-factor cross	A method for determining the genetic map position of three linked loci based upon relative frequency of coinheritance of each locus during a cross between two strains with different allelic forms in each gene.
metabolite	A chemical intermediate in the enzyme-catalyzed reactions of metabolism.
acetyl coa	Acetyl-coenzyme A, a high-energy ester of acetic acid that is important both in the tricarboxylic acid cycle and in fatty acid biosynthesis.
cytokinins	A group of
peat	n
respiratory enzyme complex	Any of the major protein complexes of the mitochondrial respiratory chain that act as electron-driven proton pumps to generate the proton gradient across the inner membrane.
zymogen	An inactive precursor of an enzyme
brush border	An apical epithelial surface bearing microvilli.
peptide bond	Chemical bond that connects amino acids in a protein.
lipid	class of compounds that includes not only the edible fats and oils but also diverse materials such as cholesterol and other steroids
plasmid curing	The treatment of cells with a substance that interferes with plasmid replication.
virion	A mature infectious virus particle.
solid-phase synthesis	A combinatorial chemical synthesis technique for the creation of libraries of diverse compounds that utilizes solid supports to separate compounds during synthesis, thus simplifying the identification of the resulting compounds.
epithelium	Coherent sheet comprising one or more layers of cells that covers an external body surface or lines an internal cavity
effective stratospheric chlorine	chlorine- and bromine-containing gases in the stratosphere
foveate	with foveae or pit-like depressions.
visual cortex	The part of the cerebral cortex that processes visual information
mitosis	nuclear division resulting in the formation of two identical daughter nuclei.
ejaculatory duct	see ductus ejaculatorius.
biodiversity hot spot	A relatively small area with an exceptional concentration of endemic species and a large number of endangered and threatened species.
array synthesis	A form of parallel synthesis used in combinatorial chemistry in which the reactions take place in a spatially organized array.
hetero	as a prefix, unequal; different from.
conservative substitution	Replacement of an amino acid residue in a polypeptide by another residue with similar properties; for example, substitution of Glu by Asp.
lichen	A fungus and an alga (or a cyanobacterium) living in symbiotic association.
mineralization	The process of replacing any organism's original material with a mineral.
d218o method	See doubly labeled water method.
micronutrient	An element that an organism needs in very small amounts and that functions as a component or cofactor of enzymes
cryptic	A feature that is normally not visible.
mycoplasma	A group of bacteria without cell wall
carboxyl group	The acidic -COOH functional group found in organic molecules.
enzyme	A protein functioning as a catalyst in living organisms, which promotes specific reactions or groups of reactions.
biodiversity	The genetic diversity of natural organisms
crocodilians	krock-uh-DILL-ee-uhns/ Alligators, crocodiles, and gharials
polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis	See PAGE.
trophic level	The approximate feeding level in an ecosystem
nastic	Undirected(usually) and reversible responses of plants to being touched
hela cell	Line of human epithelial cells that grows vigorously in culture
elate -us	see elevatus.
original type	is the actual specimen from which a published description is prepared.
percipient	with the power of perceiving.
branchiae	air tubes or gill-like processes of aquatic larva;.
acoustic nerve	connects the auditory pits or other organs of hearing with special ganglia.
competitive inhibitor	A substance, similar in structure to an enzyme's substrate, that binds to the active site and inhibits (prevents) a reaction.
aerotolerance testing	A procedure used to determine the atmospheric requirements of an isolate suspected of being an anaerobe.
horizontal gene exchange	Transfer of genes from one organism to another by a mechanism other than reproduction.
facultative	Optional.
lcm	Laser Capture Microdissection conceived and first developed as a prototype research tool at the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD) and the National Cancer Institute (NCI) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH)
auxanographic technique	A method for determination of carbon or nitrogen utilization by placing the substrate onto the surface of a basal agar medium seeded with a test organism such as a yeast.
recalcitrant	Resistant to microbial attack.
allochthonous flora	Organisms that are not indigenous to the soil but that enter soil by precipitation, diseased tissues, manure, and sewage
mutagen	A chemical or physical agent that increases the frequency of mutation, usually by directly damaging the DNA.
tgase	An abbreviation for transglutaminase.
constitutive enzyme	see ENZYME (cf
replisome	The multiprotein complex that promotes DNA synthesis at the replication fork.
ribosome	A structure consisting of small and large ribonucleoprotein units that is the site of intracellular protein biosynthesis.
respiratory control	Regulatory mechanism that controls the rate of electron transport in the respiratory chain according to need via a direct influence of the electrochemical proton gradient.
prohormone	An peptide hormone that is inactive until proteolytic cleavage.
vertebral column	Surrounds & protects nerve cord.Provides structural support:Large body size, fast movement.
myeloid cell	Any white blood cell other than lymphocytes.
pigment	any colorful compound, used by living things to absorb or block sunlight, and in sexual displays
use and disuse	A concept used by Lamarck to explain evolution as resulting from the transmission of characters that became enhanced or diminished because of their use or disuse, respectively, during the life experience of individuals
landrace	Domesticated crop plant or livestock that has adaptations specific to the local environment in which it evolved.
emmet	an ant.
continuous variation	Character variations (such as height in humans) whose distribution follows a series of small nondiscrete quantitative steps from one extreme to the other
malignant	Describes tumors and tumor cells that are invasive and/or able to undergo metasis
autochthonous	Refers to something formed in its present location
bacteriophage	Virus that infects bacteria, often with destruction or lysis of the host cell.
anaphase-promoting complex	Ubiquitin ligase that promotes the destruction of a set of proteins, some of which initiate the separation of sister chromatids during the metaphase-to-anaphase transition during mitosis.
demography	The study of statistics relating to birth and deaths in populations.
crossbreeding	Mating of individuals from different breeds
flavo-testaceous	light yellow-brown: almost luteous.
behavioral homeostasis	Perceptions of need that usually link directly to physiological control systems.
coleoptile	koh-lee-AWP-tuhl/ The first leaf of a monocotyledon.
sejunctus	separated.
anion	negatively charged ion
budding	An asexual means of propagation in which outgrowths from the parent form and pinch off to live independently or else remain attached to eventually form extensive colonies.
bipupillate	an ocellate spot with two pupils, of the same or different in color.
valence electrons	the electrons in the outermost electron shell
niger	black.
mycorrhizae	Fungal mutualists associated with plant roots.
habitat	The places where organisms of a species tend to live(e.g
t-2 toxin	a mycotoxin of the trichothecene group, produced by several Fusarium spp.; the cause of alimentary toxic aleukia.
biosphere	The entire portion of Earth inhabited by life; the sum of all the planet's ecosystems.
carbonyl group	A functional group present in aldehydes and ketones and consisting of a carbon atom double-bonded to an oxygen atom.
banded iron formation	An iron-containing laminated sedimentary rock, often composed of layers of tiny quarts crystals (chert).
half-site	The DNA sequence recognized by a dimeric protein is composed of two half-sites, with each half-site bound by a monomer
climax community	The stage in
extra-ocular	remote from or beyond the eyes.
rank	In traditional taxonomy, taxa are ranked according to their level of inclusiveness
power equation	See allometric equation.
survivorship	The proportion of individuals born at a given time (cohort) who survive to a given age.
hcsus	HIV Cost and Services Utilization Study
colloid fraction	Organic and inorganic matter with very small particle size and a correspondingly large surface area per unit of mass.
tropical rain forest	The most complex of all communities, located near the equator where rainfall is abundant; harbors more species of plants and animals than all other terrestrial biomes combined.
ni	Abbreviation for neuronal inclusions.
fascia	a transverse band or broad line; it is common when it crosses both wings or wing covers.
race	A population or group of populations in a species that share a geographically and/or ecologically identifiable origin and have unique gene frequencies and phenotypic characters that distinguish them from other races
krebs cycle	the series of reactions that results in the oxidation of pyruvic acid to hydrogen atoms, electrons, and carbon dioxide; the electrons, passed along electron-carrier molecules, then go through the phosphorylation and terminal oxidation processes; also called the tricarboxylic acid cycle or TCA.
negative pressure breathing	A breathing system in which air is pulled into the lungs.
isomerization	Rearrangement of atomic groups within the same molecule without any loss or gain of atoms.
tetrahydrofolate	The reduced, active coenzyme form of the vitamin folate.
dna cloning	See cloning.
upanishads	Sacred texts of Hinduism that deal with broad philosophical and theological questions.
dissociation constant	An equilibrium constant for the dissociation of a molecule into two parts (e.g., dissociation of acetic acid into acetate anion and a proton); Kd.
pre-anal	above or before the anal opening.
acidophile	An organism that grows optimally at acidic (low) pH values (usually b elow 6, sometimes as low as 1) and grows poorly or not at all under highe r pH conditions (i.e
idealism	The philosophy that the universe is constituted of nonmaterial ideas.
corpus striatum	Another term for striatum.
binomial expansion	Describes a statistical method of examining characteristics in a population
oxygen conformity	A response in which an animal exposed to a decreasing O2 concentration in its environment allows its rate of O2 consumption to decrease in parallel.
multicopy plasmid	A plasmid with a high copy number.
coronary arteries	restenosis refers to the reocclusion of a coronary artery after it has been dilated using coronary angioplasty.
mesozoic era	The middle era of the Phanerozoic eon, covering the approximately 180-million-year interval between the Paleozoic (ending about 245 million years ago) and Cenozoic (beginning about 65 million years ago)
inter	between; among.
membrane fusion	This is often called viral entry
inaurate -us	golden yellow [pale cadmium yellow].
electrochemical gradient	The combined influence of a difference in the concentration of an ion on the two sides of the membrane and the electrical charge difference across the membrane (membrane potential)
replica plating	The production of identical bacterial colony patterns on a series of agar plates.
camp	3',5' cyclic adenosine monophosphate
sedentary	Living in a fixed location, as with most plants, tunicates, sponges, etc
intertidal zone	The shallow zone of the ocean where land meets water.
nitrogen fixation	The conversion of gaseous nitrogen into a form usable by plants
prophylactic surgery	surgery to remove tissue that is in danger of becoming cancerous, before cancer has the chance to develop
unique	one only: unlike any other.
centrifugation	sen-truh-f(y)oo-GAY-shun/ Processing with a centrifuge.
kinetics	The study of reaction rates.
chemo-autotroph	A microorganism that obtains energy from light-independent inorganic reactions.
cam	see cell adhesion molecule
diaphragm	/DIE-ə-fram/ n
radiation oncologist	a physician who has received special training regarding the treatment of cancers with different types of radiation
glycoprotein	A protein linked to an oligosaccharide or a polysaccharide
uplift	n
deme	/DEEM/ n
promiscuous plasmid	A plasmid with a broad host-range.
proton pump	in plants bacteria and fungi it is the major electrogenic pump actively transporting H+ out of the cell
ungulate	A hoofed mammal.
bering land bridge	n
bulk flow	the movement of water due to a difference in pressure between two locations
atomarius	with minute dots or points.
unarticulate	not jointed nor segmented.
trehalose	A disaccharide found in microorganisms that is used to stabilize protein structure.
proteome	The dynamic protein complement of an organism, including all post-translational modifications and protein interactions.
phospholipid	A lipid containing one or more phosphate groups.
htt	Abbreviation sometimes used by researchers for the altered huntingtin protein.
omnivorous	a general feeder upon animal or vegetable food, or both.
renal cell cancer	a type of kidney cancer.
mycoherbicide	a prepartion of phytopathogenic fungi used to kill weeds.
lax-101	A purified form of eicopentaenoic acid (EPA) that has shown some efficacy in slowing the progression of HD in a phase III clinical trial.
apoplast	In plants, the continuum of cell walls plus the extracellular spaces
broad host range	The ability to infect and reproduce in a wide variety of different organisms
dissilient	bursting open elastically.
neuroplasticity	The brain's natural ability to form new connections in order to compensate for injury or changes in the environment
modern synthesis	See Neo-Darwinism.
statocyst	A sense organ that can detect acceleration and the direction of gravitational force.
detonans	exploding: a sudden noise or a puff like an explosion.
alveolus	a cell, like that of a honeycomb.
species-specific	Characteristic of (and limited to) a particular species.
archaea	An evolutionarily distinct group (domain) of prokaryotes consisting of the methanogens, most extreme halophiles and hyperthermophiles, and Thermoplasma.
antitoxin	An antibody that specifically interacts with and neutralizes a toxin.
amphipathic	Containing both polar and nonpolar domains.
mutagen	Substance that increases mutation rate.
top down force	Forces within a community that influence the community at the top of the food chain and cascade downward to lower trophic levels.
hippocampal	Of or relating to the hippocampus.
root	An organ in vascular plants that anchors the plant and enables it to absorb water and nutrients from the soil.
wobble theory	Theory explaining how one transfer RNA molecule may recognize two different codons; the first two bases in messenger RNA pair according to base pairing rules, but the third has leeway (wobble) that allows it to pair with a variety of bases.
development	The process by which a multicellular organism is produced from a single cell.
scatter caching	When an animal stores food in various spots for future consumption.
dermatology	/derm-ə-TAWL-ə-jee/ n
surface tension	A measure of how difficult it is to stretch or break the surface of a liquid
beta particle	high-speed electron emitted from a nucleus
molarity	number of moles of solute present in 1 L of solution
canopy	Layer of vegetation elevated above the ground, usually of tree braches and epiphytes
saturate	deeply or strongly marked; in a color, means intense.
glycoside	A compound in which a glycosyl group has been substituted for a hydroxyl group.
anti-müllerian hormone	See Müllerian inhibitory substance.
sum of squares	The sum of squared deviations from the mean for a set of observations; it is the numerator of the variance.
cephalotheca	the head covering in the pupal stage.
endergonic reaetion	A chemical reaction that consumes energy (that is, for which ,ΔG is positive).
auscultation	A method based on sounds or sound changes, used during a physical examination to gather data on internal organs like the heart, lungs, liver, etc., the most common method involves the use of a stethoscope.
polysaccharide	A carbohydrate molecule that consists of many simple-sugar (monosaccharide) molecules polymerized together
gastnila	A cuplike embryonic stage in multicellular animals that follows the blastula stage
n-linked oligosaccharide	Chain of sugars attached to a protein through the NH2 group of the side chain of an asparagine residue.
furred	covered with dense hair resembling fur.
monosaccharide	The component unit of an oligosaccharide or polysaccharide.
bilayer	A double layer of lipid molecules with the hydrophilic ends oriented outward, in contact with water, and the hydrophobic parts oriented inward.
flavescent	somewhat yellow.
lipoatrophy	The loss of fat stored under the skin, causing small indentations, especially in the face (see: hollowed eyes and sunken cheeks)
trapezoid -al	a four-sided plane of which two sides are parallel and two are not.
diageotropism	the tendency to grow in a direction horizontal to the surface of the earth.
binomial	the unique double name given to each known species: composed of generic epithet and a species, or `trivial', epithet.
criteria pollutants	air pollutants for which EPA has set permissible levels based on their effects on human health and on the environment
exothermic	term applied to any chemical or physical change accompanied by the release of heat
uromere	any of the abdominal segments of an arthropod.
rotator	used for turning; applied to muscles.
pharmacophore	three-dimensional arrangement of atoms or groups of atoms responsible for the biological activity of a drug molecule
oocyte	Developing egg cell.
assimilatory nitrate reduction	Conversion of nitrate to reduced forms of nitrogen, generally ammonium, for the synthesis of amino acids and proteins.
anoxygenic	Not able to produce oxygen
buffer	A solution of the acid (HA) and base (A−) form of a compound that undergoes little change in pH when small quantities of strong acid or base are added.
melting	The thermal denaturation of a macromolecule.
erythrocyte	See red blood cell.
social	living in communities: more especially those species in which undeveloped or worker forms occur and where the colony has a single female head.
dehydrogenase	An enzyme that catalyzes the removal of a pair of electrons (and usually one or two protons) from a substrate molecule.
karyotype	A display of the chromosome pairs of a cell arranged by size and shape.
blood	Fluid which circulates throughout the body of an animal, distributing nutrients, and often oxygen as well.
choroid	A thin, pigmented inner layer of the vertebrate eye.
cci-779	A more water-soluble and possibly more effective form of the drug rapamycin
transcription	RNA formation from a DNA template by complementary base pairing.
analog	In drug discovery, it is a molecule that is able to bind to the same site as another molecule
allometry	Differential growth rates of different body parts; during development one feature may change at a rate different from that of another feature, resulting in achange of shape
archaebacteria	Older term for the Archaea.
hepatocarcinoma	A cancer of the liver that is derived from hepatocytes.
eutrophic lake	A nutrient-rich and oxygenpoor lake, having a high rate of biological productivity
fermentation	The anaerobic degradation of glucose (glycolysis) or related molecules, yielding energy and organic end products.
adaptive immune response	Response of the vertebrate immune system to a specific antigen that typically generates immunological memory.
sporidesmin	hepatotoxic mycotoxin formed by Pithomyces, causes facial eczema in sheep.
purebred	Parent, that when inter se mated to members of the same breed or strain produces progeny with a consistent phenotype, which is also that phenotype of the parent.
anode	electrode where oxidation takes place
natriuretic	Promoting loss of sodium in the urine.
coriaceous	leather-like: thick, tough and somewhat rigid.
non-darwinian evolution	See Neutral theory of molecular evolution.
weathering	n
actin	Abundant structural protein in eukaryotic cells that interacts with many other proteins
homoeonomous	of the same substance or texture.
phylogenetics	Field of biology that deals with the relationships between organisms
penal sheath	the horny outer covering of the penis.
case-control study	An epidemiological method in which people with a particular condition are compared to individuals as much like them as possible, but without the disease.
aeroscepsin	an indefinite sense of perception supposed to be located in the antenna.
bioremediation	Use of microorganisms to remove or detoxify toxic or unwanted chemicals from an environment.
enucleation	Removal of the nucleus from a cell.
periodic table	an orderly arrangement of all the elements based on similarities in their properties
pore	Any opening into or through a tissue or body structure.
leukocidin	A substance able to destroy phagocytes.
immune response	The specific reactions induced in the human or animal body due to the contact with foreign material
carnivore	Literally, an organism that eats meat
selection	The process by which the forms of organisms in a population that are better adapted to the environmental conditions increase in frequency relative to less well-adapted forms over a number of generations.
biomass	The dry weight of organic matter com: prising a group of organisms in a particular habitat.
transmembrane protein	Membrane protein that extends through the lipid bilayer, with part of its mass on either side of the membrane.
niche	See Ecological niche.
apoptosis	Cell death due to a intracellular developmental program or induced by other cells.
net primary productivity	The gross primary productivity minus the energy used by the producers for cellular respiration; represents the storage of chemical energy in an ecosystem available to consumers.
anergic	Absence of sensitivity to an antigen or the condition resulting from desensitization (cutaneous leishmaniasis).
isoforms	Multiple related proteins that differ in sequence due to alternate splicing of exons within a single primary RNA transcript or due to derivation from two related genes.
dispersion	The distribution of individuals within geographical population boundaries.
saline soil	Soil containing sufficient soluble salt to adversely affect the growth of most crop plants.
hymen	a thin plane membrane serving as a partition.
phospholipid	Two fatty acids linked via glycerol phosphate to one of several polar groups.
aromatic	Describes a molecule that contains carbon atoms in a ring, commonly drawn as linked through alternating single and double bonds
high-performance liquid chromatography	Type of chromatography that uses columns packed with tiny beads of matrix; the solution to be separated is pushed through under high pressure.
auxin	A plant growth hormone usually concentrated in the apical bud.
limy	adj
open system	A defined part of the material universe that is not isolated, meaning that it is capable of exchanging matter, energy, or both with its surroundings.
meixner test	for amatoxins: (1) express fluid from agaric onto newsprint, (2) dry, (3) add a drop of concentrated hydrochloric acid, (4) blue colour developing in 1-20 mins
leucine zipper	A protein structural motif involved in protein-protein interactions in many eukaryotic regulatory proteins; consists of two interacting α helices in which Leu residues in every seventh position are a prominent feature of the interacting surfaces.
person to person epidemic	An epidemic resulting from person to person contact, characterized by a gradual rise and fall in number of cases.
steroid	Hydrophobic lipid molecule with a characteristic four-ringed structure
glutathione peroxidase	An enzyme known for its antioxidant effects against peroxides
global atmospheric lifetime	time required for a gas added to the atmosphere to be removed
monosaccharides	Carbohydrate molecules in which simple sugars consist of three to seven carbon atoms.
succession	See Ecological succession.
carcinogen	Any chemical or physical agent that can cause cancer when cells or organisms are exposed to it.
phenotype	The physical and physiological traits of an organism, which are determined by its genetic makeup.
interference	Degree to which one crossover interferes with additional crossovers.
er retention signal	Short amino acid sequence on a protein that prevents it moving out of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)
biota	All organisms, including animals (fauna) and plants (flora) of a given region or time period.
equilibrium	The point at which the concentrations of two compounds are such that the interconversion of one compound into the other compound does not result in any change in free energy.
young earth creationism	The belief that the earth is only some thousands of years old and that the geology and geography of the modern earth can be explained in terms of a world-wide flood
drug target	A gene or protein that plays a role in a disease process and is the intended site of drug activity.
missense mutation	A change in which a codon for one amino acid is replaced by a codon for another amino acid.
specific heat	quantity of heat energy that must be absorbed to increase the temperature of 1 g of a substance by 1°C
notum	the dorsal or upper part of a segment: = tergum.
diprotic acid	An acid having two dissociable protons.
trivittate	with three stripes or vitta.
radioimmunoassay	A sensitive and quantitative method for detecting trace amounts of a biomolecule, based on its capacity to displace a radioactive form of the molecule from combination with its specific antibody.
desensitization	see adaptation
flagelliform	whip-like; applied to a process.
energy charge	The fractional degree to which the AMP-ADP-ATP system is filled with high-energy phosphates (phosphoryl groups).
bioisostere	A bioisostere is a compound resulting from the exchange of an atom or of a group of atoms with another, broadly similar, atom or group of atoms
nad+	Activated carrier that participates in an oxidation reaction by accepting a hydride ion (H–) from a donor molecule
semisterility	Condition which results when there is an absence of interstitial crossover, 50% of the assortments are alternate, 25% are adjacent-1, and 25% are adjacent-2, producing 50% viable gametes and 50% non-viable gametes.
atp	"adenosine triphosphate"
lianas	Any of various long-stemmed, woody vines that are rooted in the soil at ground level and use trees, as well as other means of vertical support, to climb up to the canopy in order to get access to well-lit areas of the forest.
scavenger	An organism that feeds upon dead and dying organisms.
sugar	One of the molecular components of a nucleotide; sugars are a class of molecules made up of carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen arranged in a ringed structure.
v•o2max	An animal’s maximal rate of O2 consumption
estrogen	Any steroid hormone, such as estradiol, that stimulates the development and maintenance of the female reproductive system and secondary sex characteristics
discoplacental	/DISK-oh-plu-SENT-əl/ adj
picomole	One trillionth mole; 10-12 mole.
ventri-meson	the middle line of the ventral surface of the body.
continental slope	n
mutualism	A symbiotic relationship in which both participants benefit.
habit	The general growth pattern of a plant
primate	Any member of the order of animals including monkeys, apes, and humans.
monomer	A single molecule or molecular unit that has the potential to be chemically bound to more molecules or units.
lower respiratory tract	Trachea, bronchi, and lungs.
essential	A substance that cannot be produced from the body, and therefore must be obtained from the diet.
fatty acid	A long-chain aliphatic acid that is found in natural fats.
pathogenesis	The origination and development of a disease.
multienzyme system	A group of related enzymes participating in a given metabolic pathway.
saturated fatty acid	A fatty acid in which all the bonds between carbon atoms in the carbon-chain backbone of the molecule are single bonds
homologous structures	Structures in different species that are similar because of common ancestry.
lipophilic	See hydrophobic.
gap junction	Protein-lined channel between adjacent cells that allows passage of ions and small molecules between the cells
minimal medium	Used to culture bacteria or some other microorganism; contains only the nutrients required by prototrophic (wild-type) cells.typically, a carbon source, essential elements such as nitrogen and phosphorus, certain vitamins, and other required ions and nutrients.
deciliter	/DES-ə-LEET-er/ n
thallus	A seaweed body that is plantlike but lacks true roots, stems, and leaves.
superoxide anion	A type of free radical.
punnett square	The checkerboard diagram used for analysis of allele segregation.
energy coupling	The transfer of energy from one process to another.
acropetal	Produced in succession toward the apex (youngest conidium at the tip).
enzyme	a protein which can catalyze (increase the rate of) a chemical reaction inside of the cell.
svedberg unit	The unit used to express the sedimentation constant (S = 10-l3 sec)
reduction	The addition of electrons to a substance involved in a redox reaction.
dmf	Dimethylformamide.
amenorrhea	The absence or abnormal stoppage of menstrual periods; a risk factor for osteoporosis.
substrate	In biochemistry, the substances being acted up by an enzyme.
mosaic evolution	The evolution of different features of organisms at different rates.
radicle	The end of a plant embryo which gives rise to the first root.
resolvase	An enzyme which resolves a co-integrate molecule into its two component replicons.
cation exchange capacity	Sum of exchangeable cations that a soil can adsorb at a specific pH
marl	n
petaflop	A theoretical measure of computer speed that corresponds to a thousand trillion (1015) floating point operations per second.
chlorocruorin	A type of respiratory pigment found in certain marine annelid worms, formed by the combination of hemelike structures with protein
covalent bond	A chemical bond in which atoms fully share electrons
dodecandrous	adj
carbohydrate	General term for sugars and related compounds containing carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, usually with the empirical formula (CH2O)n.
sybr green i	A fluorescent molecule that binds nonspecifically to dsDNA
protuberance	any elevation above the surface.
sellate	saddle-shaped.
cell membrane	The outer membrane of a cell, which separates it from the environment
gamma ray	high-energy, shortwavelength photon emitted from the nucleus with no charge or mass
b cell	Type of lymphocyte that makes antibodies.
aerobic	Describes a process that requires, or occurs in the presence of, gaseous oxygen (O2).
budding yeast	Common name often given to the baker’s yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, a common experimental organism, which divides by budding off a smaller cell.
parallel analysis	Simultaneous analysis of thousands of samples.
steric hindrance	Hindrance of an enzymatic reaction by structural features of the substrate or the enzyme.
class	a division of the animal kingdom lower than a sub-kingdom and higher than an order: e.g
sampling variation	Chance differences in statistics describing a set of observations that occurs when repeating the experiment with a new sets of observations.
isotope	One of several atomic forms of an element, each containing a different number of neutrons and thus differing in atomic mass.
site-specific recombination	A type of genetic recombination that occurs only at specific ssquences.
transport	An entirely general term referring to any and all movements of solutes, water, gases, or other materials from place to place, regardless of the mechanisms of movement.
regulator	A characterization of an animal in regard to environmental variables
carneous -eus	flesh-colored [salmon with a little carmine].
trna-modifying enzyme	Creates a modified base in RNA by catalyzing a chemical change in the standard base.
volatile	refers to a substance that readily passes into the vapor phase
variola	a deep, rounded impression with defined edges.
eluate	The effluent from a chromatographic column.
radiant heat transfer	Transfer of heat by electromagnetic radiation between two surfaces that are not in contact
bottom-up model	A model of community organization in which mineral nutrients control community organization because nutrients control plant numbers, which in turn control herbivore numbers, which in turn control predator numbers.
osmotic pressure	Pressure generated by the osmotic flow of water through a semipermeable membrane into an aqueous compartment containing solute at a higher concentration.
lipocortin	An enzyme that inhibits the activity of phospholipase A2
ellipsoidal	see elliptical.
autonomously replicating sequence	Sequence that permits a DNA molecule to replicate in yeast; a yeast DNA replication origin
density	The number of individuals per unit area or volume.
minimum dynamic area	The amount of suitable habitat needed to sustain a viable population.
anabolism	Refers to those metabolic processs involved in the synthesis of cell constituents from simpler molecules, such as org anic and/or inorganic precursors
lamotrigine	An anticonvulsant drug normally used to control seizures or stabilize mood
abdomen	Region of the body furthest from the mouth
freebase	nitrogen-containing molecule in which the nitrogen is in possession of its lone pair of electrons
cavernicolous	cave-inhabiting.
oligopeptide	Several amino acids linked together.
molecule	The smallest particle of a substance that retains all the properties of the substance and is composed of one or more atoms.
lens	The structure in an eye that focuses light rays onto the retina.
residue	A single unit within a polymer; for example, an amino acid within a polypeptide chain
alternation of generations	Life cycle in which haploid and diploid generations alternate with each other.
chromat	A DNA sequencer output data file consisting of fluorescent traces for each base and the DNA sequence.
nested paternal half-sibling design	A quantitative genetic design that is well-suited for estimating additive genetic variance, additive genetic correlation, and thus the G matrix
aminotransferase	Increases in concentration of this enzyme sometimes result in the elevation of toxic ammonia levels
multiplicative theorem	The joint probability for two or more independent events is the product of the individual probabilities of the individual events.
archaic	ancient; no longer dominant; of the olden time.
hians	gaping.
somatic mutations	(See Acquired mutations.)
niche	The particular range of conditions that species
distant	remote from: standing considerably apart.
wild type	The most commonly observed phenotype or genotype for a particular character
electron acceptor	A substance that accepts electrons during an oxidation-reduction reaction
huntingtin protein	A key protein in Huntington's disease
lambda bacteriophage	Virus that infects E
isotope	One of a number of forms of an atom that differ in atomic weight but have the same number of protons and electrons, and therefore the same chemistry
emergent	Describes a property of a system that is not predictable from the starting conditions.
fluorescence microscope	Microscope designed to view material stained with fluorescent dyes
oligosaccharide	Several monosaccharide groups joined by glycosidic bonds.
red nucleus	A small part of the brain involved in the control of movement.
secondary succession	A type of succession that occurs where an existing community has been cleared by some disturbance that leaves the soil intact.
gamma-carbolines	A type of small molecule whose derivatives have recently been associated with antipsychotic, antibiotic and antitumor activity.
isoelectric point	The pH at which a charged molecule in solution has no net electric charge and therefore does not move in an electric field.
diuresis	The production of urine at a high rate
germinal choice	See Eutelegenesis.
systemic fungal infection	An infection of the bloodstream or organs of the body caused by the presence of a fungus
concatamer	A DNA molecule consisting of two or more separate molecules linked end-to-end to form a long linear structure.
phase-contrast microscope	Type of light microscope that exploits the interference effects that occur when light passes through material of different refractive indexes
ruminant	An animal, such as a cow or a sheep, with an elaborate, multicompartmentalized stomach specialized for an herbivorous diet.
antiseptic	An agent that kills or inhibits microbial growth but is not harmful t o human tissue.
bicolored	with two colors that contrast to some extent.
z form	A duplex DNA structure in which there is the usual type of hydrogen bonding between the base pairs but in which the helix formed by the two polynucleotide chains is left-handed rather than right-handed.
burst size	The average number of phage released from a single infected bacterium during lytic growth
entomosis	a disease caused by a parasitic insect.
karyogamy	Fusion of the nuclei of the male and female gametes.
exergonic reaction	A chemical reaction that takes place with a negative change in standard free energy.
chronic bronchitis	two chronic lung diseases that are characterized by airway obstruction.
scanner	Also referred to as "reader"; after fluorescent labelling and hybridisation, the scanner or reader scans the microarrays into a computer for subsequent analysis.
degrade	to break something down
carboxyl group	A functional group present in organic acids and consisting of a single carbon atom double-bonded to an oxygen atom and also bonded to a hydroxyl group.
tonic-clonic	Seizures that involve both tonic and clonic phases
half-life	time required for half the nuclei in a sample of a radioisotope to undergo radioactive decay
endonuclease	Enzyme that breaks the phosphodiester bonds in a DNA molecule.
x chromosome	One of the two sex chromosomes (the other is the Y chromosome)
complementary	Nucleic acid sequences that can base pair with each other.
levator	a muscle that raises an organ or a part.
chlorophyll	KLORE-uh-fill/ The green coloring matter found inside chloroplasts; in photosynthesis it catalyzes the combination of carbon dioxide with water to form carbohydrates.
in vitro	Occurring outside an organism, in culture, or in an extract.
mhc	see major histocompatibility complex
podotheca	that part of pupa that covers the legs of future adult.
cimmerian terranes	n
energy metabolism	The set of processes by which energy is acquired, transformed, channeled into useful functions, and dissipated by cells or organisms.
gentamicin	A type of aminoglycoside antibiotic
configuration	The spatial arrangement of an organic molecule that is conferred by the presence of either (1) double bonds, about which there is no freedom of rotation, or (2) chiral centers, around which substituent groups are arranged in a specific sequence
high-performance liquid chromatography	Chromatographic procedures, often conducted at relatively high pressures, using automated equipment that permits refined and highly reproducible profiles.
concolorous	of the same general color.
threshold cycle	In real-time PCR, the cycle number (in the exponential phase) at which enough amplified product has accumulated to yield a detectable fluorescent signal (i.e., to cross the threshold fluorescence level)
covalent	A nonionic chemical bond formed by a sharing of electrons between two atoms.
cohesion	Force holding a solid or liquid together, owing to attraction between like molecules.
serovars	Different strains of the same species of bacterium that can be distinguished by different reactions to certain antibodies (anti-sera)
catkins	Small inconspicuous strings of reproductive parts.
absorption spectrum	The absorption of electromagnetic energy by a molecule or other object as a function of the wavelength of the energy.
merrf	Myoclonus epilepsy with ragged-red fibers; a common type of mitochondrial myopathy (MM).
crescentric	lunulate.
electrochemical potential	The energy required to maintain a separation of charge and of concentration across a membrane.
respiration	General term for a process in a cell involving the oxidative breakdown of sugars or other organic molecules, and requiring the uptake of O2 while producing CO2 and H2O as waste products.
unsaturated fatty acid	A fatty acid containing one or more double bonds.
regression	(n) A drop in sea level that causes an area of the land to be uncovered by seawater.
myoblast	Mononucleated, undifferentiated muscle precursor cell
tissue culture	Method by which cells derived from multicellular organisms are grown in liquid media.
barophile	An organism able to live optimally at high hydrostatic pressure.
discodactylous	/DISK-oh-DAK-təl-əs/ adj
enations	Flaps of tissue such as those found on psilophytes.
carcinogenic	capable of causing cancer
amino acid	monomer from which our body builds proteins
conformation	The three-dimensional arrangement adopted by a molecule, usually a complex macromolecule
pre-symptomatic	The state of health prior to the clinical appearance of the signs and symptoms of a disease.
endorphin	Any of several hormones produced in the brain and anterior pituitary that inhibits pain perception.
phallus	=penis: q.v.
endothermic reaction	A chemical reaction that takes up heat (that is, for which ΔH is positive).
necrotroph	an organism that kills tissues of living hosts by releasing toxins, then lives saprobically on the dead tissues.
vegetative growth	Growth of a plant by division of cells, without sexual reproduction.
micrometer	One-millionth of a meter, or ten to the minus sixth meter (abbreviated um), the unit used for measuring microorganisms.
extended	spread out: not lying one upon the other.
enzyme	one of a number of special protein catalysts contained in living organisms.
lodicule	One of a pair of tiny scales in a grass floret, between the lemma and the fertile parts of the flower.
maldi-tof ms	The abbreviation for Matrix Assisted Laser Desorption/Ionization Time-of-Flight Mass Spectrometry, a high-throughput protein sequencing method based on embedding samples in a matrix from which they are desorbed by laser light.
bond energy	The quantity of energy that must be absorbed to break a particular kind of chemical bond; equal to the quantity of energy the bond releases when it forms.
phycoerythrin	red, water-soluble pigment found in the cyanobacteria and red algae.
cohort	Individuals of a population that are all the same age.
psychostimulants	A group of drugs that lead to increased motor activity and decreased fatigue as well as an induced euphoric state.
optimum ph	The characteristic pH at which an enzyme has maximal catalytic activity.
genetic recombination	The process by which a fragment of DNA from one molecule (chromosome, plasmid, phage genome) is exchanged with or integrated into another molecule to produce a recombinant molecule(s).
peptide bond	Bond between two amino acids, linking the amino group of one with the carboxyl group of another.
in vitro	Literally means "in glass", away from a living organism; it is used to describe whatever happens in a test tube or other receptacle, as opposed to in vivo
imbricate	arranged or appearing like the scales on a fish or the shingles on a roof.
degenerate	Not a moral judgment but an adjective that describes multiple states that amount to the same thing: different triplet combinations of nucleotide bases (codons) that code for the same amino acid, for example.
archaeasceous	(of asci) essentially bitunicate, splitting at the tip; part of the inner wall may protrude; common in lichens, esp
steroids	A type of lipid characterized by a carbon skeleton consisting of four rings with various functional groups attached.
resveratrol	A phytoalexin found mainly in red wine that exhibits both antioxidant and anti-inflammatory abilities.
silaceous	= ochraceous.
radioisotope	Unstable form of an atom that emits radiation as it decays
relaxed dna	Circular DNA that has an unwound loop
transfer rna	Set of small RNA molecules used in protein synthesis as an interface (adaptor) between messenger RNA and amino acids
probe	In molecular biology, an oligonucleotide with a specific sequence that is used to detect the complementary sequence by hybridization
gestation	Pregnancy; the state of carrying developing young within the female reproductive tract.
plectonemic coiling	The intertwining of the two strands of a double helix such that separation of the strands requires uncoiling.
redox	See oxidation-reduction reaction.
cytokinesis	The division of the
data mining	The automated or semi-automated search for relationships and global patterning within data
radioactive decay series	characteristic pathway of radioactive decay that begins with a radioisotope and progresses through a series of steps to eventually produce a stable isotope
alpha-tocopherol	The form of vitamin E most commonly found in the human body
green bacteria	Anoxygenic phototrophs containing chlorosomes and bacteriochlorophyll c, cs, d or e and light harvesting chlorophyll.
conformation	The spatial determinants of the atoms within a molecule, for example, the 3-D shape of a protein.
capillary action	The movement of water or any liquid along a surface; results from the combined effect of cohesion and adhesion.
profiling	A research strategy in which investigators look as comprehensively as possible at a class of compounds of interest, such as messenger RNAs (transcription profiling) or proteins (protein profiling, proteomics)
secondary coolant	water in the steam generators of a nuclear reactor core that does not come in contact with the core
capacitation	The final maturation of sperm that takes place in the female reproductive tract to make the sperm capable of rapid forward swimming and fertilization.
dominance variance	The magnitude of the phenotypic (and genotypic) variance that is due to dominance, that is, the interaction between alleles at the same locus.
genetic engineering	Manipulation of genetic material from different sources to produce new combinations that are then introduced into organisms in which such genetic material does not normally occur.
asymmetrical	not alike on the two sides; not symmetrical.
dipeptide	A two-residue peptide.
comparative genomic hybridization	A molecular cytogenetic method of screening cells for DNA gains and losses at a chromosomal level
combinatorial chemistry	systematic creation of large numbers of molecules in "libraries" that can be rapidly screened in the lab for biological activity and the potential for becoming new drugs
monsoonal	adj
hypographous	shaded; applied to a fascia that becomes gradually darker.
autotroph	An organism capable of synthesizing complex organic compounds needed for growth from simple inorganic environmental substrates: photoautotroph, an organism that can use light as an energy source and carbon dioxide as a carbon source; chemoautotroph (chemolithotroph), an organism that obtains energy for growth by oxidizing inorganic compounds such as hydrogen sulfide.
free energy of activation	The initial investment of energy necessary to start a chemical reaction; also called activation energy.
colony blots	See Colony hybridization.
frenate	having a frenulum.
genomics	The comparative analysis of genomic DNA sequences from different organisms
epidemics	If outbreaks spread worldwide they are called pandemics.
radiobiology adj. radiobiological	the study of the effects of radiation on living organisms
work	Force x DistanceEnergy transfer that occurs as a mass is moved through a distance against an opposing force
ecosystem	All the organisms in a given area as well as the abiotic factors with which they interact; a community and its physical environment.
partial compensation	See compensation.
antibodies	Antibodies are proteins (immunoglobulins) synthesized by the immune system in response to an antigen
stramineous -eus	straw yellow [pale clay yellow].
polyamide	condensation polymer that contains the amide functional group
trait	A physical characteristic, such as hair color
excurrent	attenuate, narrowly prolonged.
transitory	lasting for a short time only.
symbionts	Two or more organisms that are mutually interdependent; usually Iiving in physical association.
nucleophile	An electron-rich group with a strong tendency to donate electrons to an electron-deficient nucleus (electrophile); the entering reactant in a bimolecular substitution reaction.
bauplan	Structural body plan that characterizes a group of organisms
elater	the spring or forked tail of Podurids.
three-domain system	A system of taxonomic classification based on three "superkingdoms": Bacteria, Archaea, and Eukarya.
chemical equilibrium	The condition when the forward and reverse reaction rates are equal and the concentrations of the products remain constant
teleost fish	The principal group of fish having bony skeletons.
signature sequence	Short oligonucleotides of unique sequence found in 16S ribosomal RNA of a particular group of prokaryotes.
lithotroph	In reference to energy source (electron donor) - An organism which uses an inorganic substrate (such as ammonia, hydrogen) as an electron donor in energy metabolism
reductionism	Reducing complex systems to simpler components that are more manage
oxidative phosphorylation	The phosphorylation of ADP to form ATP driven by the transfer of electrons to oxygen (O2) in bacteria and mitochondria
metabolome	The total small molecule complement of whole cells.
expanse	the distance between the apices or other widest point of the wings when fully spread.
deconvolute	To simplify or render less complex.
thermal energy	See heat.
splice site	The base sequence at each end of an intron that determines the splice point
red blood cell	A blood cell containing hemoglobin, which transports O2; also called an erythrocyte.
discal patch	in some male Hesperidae the oblique streak of specialized black scales on the disc of the primaries.
catalyst	A substance that lowers the energy necessary to activate a reaction but is not itself consumed or altered in the reaction.
adjuvant	A substance that enhances or diversifies the immune response; a drug that modulates the actions of other drugs.
ear fungi	the gelatinous, edible basidiomata of the Auriculariales.
substrate	substance upon which an enzyme acts resulting in the formation of an end product.
prasinus	grass-green [apple green].
global climate change	A change in the statistical distribution of weather over periods of time that can range from decades to millions of years.
coxal glands	eversible glandular structures at base of legs; well developed in some Thysanurans, modified variously in higher orders.
hormone**	A hormone is a substance produced by endocrine glands, released in very low concentration into the bloodstream, and which exerts regulatory effects on specific organs or tissues distant from the site of secretion.
cofactor	A small molecule required for enzyme activity
zero sum	The limit to the number of individuals in the local community, where a gains are balanced by losses.
cross	Mating between genetically different individuals.
glass	A non-crystaline rock that results from very rapid cooling of magma.
genealogy	A record of familial ties and ancestral connections among members of a group.
thromboxanes	A class of molecules derived from arachidonate and involved in platelet aggregation during blood clotting.
chemical potential	Qualitatively speaking, the strength of the tendency of a chemical substance to undergo a physical or chemical change
midbody	Structure formed at the end of cleavage that can persist for some time as a tether between the two daughter cells in animals.
deposition	Any accumulation of material, by mechanical settling from water or air, chemical precipitation, evaporation from solution, etc.
chorion	the shell or covering membrane of an insect egg.
auxotroph	A microorganism strain that requires nutrients not required by the wild-type strain.
arthralgia	Severe joint pain, usually characterized as noninflammatory.
bifurcate	divided, not over half its length, into two dull points; forked.
telomere	Specialized nucleic acid structure found at the ends of linear eukaryotic chromosomes.
community assembly	How species are added to and lost from communities, and how communities change over time.
colony	Clone of bacterial cells on a solid medium that is visible to the naked eye.
character	An observable heritable feature.
biocide	a substance which kills living organisms.
cyclosporin	An immunosupressant used in transplant surgery to prevent rejection of transplants.
atpase	An enzyme that hydrolyzes ATP to yield ADP and phosphate; usually coupled to some process requiring energy.
ß-galactosidase	An enzyme that catalyzes the cleavage of lactose into glucose + galactose
zone of elongation	The zone of primary growth in roots where new cells elongate, sometimes up to ten times their original length.
inducer	A chemical or physical agent that turns on gene expression
hemoglobin	An iron-containing molecule in red blood cells that carries oxygen around the body.
covalent	Nonionic chemical bond formed by a sharing of electrons between two atoms.
phytoremediation	An emerging nondestructive technology that seeks to cheaply reclaim contaminated areas by taking advantage of the remarkabJe ability of some plant species to extract heavy metals and other pollutants from the soil and to concentrate them in easily harvested portions of the plant.
ionic bond	chemical bond formed by the attraction between oppositely charged ions
synergism	a condition in which two substances, e.g
granularity	The degree to which a system contains separate components
lyases	Enzymes that catalyze the removal of a group from a molecule to form a double bond, or the addition of a group to a double bond.
congo red	A compound that is believed to both decrease the presence of beta-amyloid fibrils and decrease huntingtin protein aggregation.
hydrolysis	Hydrolysis is the process by which a molecule is split in two by the addition of a water molecule, which has the chemical formula H2O
biophysiological	Referring to the internal biological processes that occur in the body.
rhizome	n
magnetoreceptors	Receptors in an organism that allow it to respond to the earth.s magnetic field.
solid support	An insoluble material to which reagents may be attached so that they may be readily separated from reaction by-products and solvents by filtration.
bioluminescence	The production of light by a biochemical system.
exponential growth	In populations, the increasingly accelerated rate of growth due to the increasing number of individuals being added to the reproductive base
extracellular matrix	A usually insoluble network consisting of polysaccharides, fibrous proteins, and adhesive proteins that are secreted by animal cells
energy	The ability to maintain or increase order in a system.
chromosome theory of heredity	States that genes are located on chromosomes.
activation energy	The input of energy required to (overcome the barrier to) initiate a chemical reaction
v-snare	see SNAREs
rhizoid	n
alpha helix	Common secondary structure of proteins in which the linear sequence of amino acids is folded into a right-handed spiral stabilized by hydrogen bonds between carboxyl and amide groups in the backbone
globose	formed like a globe or sphere.
motile	Able to move oneself about, capable of self-locomotion.
nonequilibrium model	The model of communities that emphasizes that they are not stable in time but constantly changing after being buffeted by disturbances.
goffered	a surface with regular impressions, closely set, and separated by narrow ridges: reticulated.
flora	All plants of a particular region or time period.
peptide	An organic molecule composed of a sequence of amino acids covalently linked by peptide bonds (a bond formed between the amino group of one amino acid and the carboxyl group of another through the elimination of a water molecule).
smaltinus	a dull grayish blue.
self incompatibility	A system that prevents the production of viable offspring by self-fertilization.
institia	stria or furrows of equal width throughout.
joule	A unit of energy: 1 J = 0.239 cal; 1 cal = 4.184 J
external	belonging to or on the outside.
chromosome set	KROME-uh-soam/ (1) in an organism that lacks sex chromosomes: a set of chromosomes that includes one and only one of each of the different types of chromosomes characteristic of that organism; (2) in an organism having sex chromosomes: a set of chromosomes that includes one and only one of each of the different types of autosomes characteristic of that organism, plus either one of the sex chromosomes.
flaccid	Limp
glycosaminoglycan	A heteropolysaccharide of two alternating units: one is either N-acetylglucosamine or N-acetylgalactosamine; the other is a uronic acid (usually glucuronic acid)
hypervariable region	Any of three small regions within the variable region of an immunoglobulin light or heavy chain that show the highest variability from molecule to molecule
amino group	-NH2.
cyclospora cayetanensis	Cyclospora cayetanensis is an acid-fast, coccidian-like, parasitic protozoa with the size of 8-10 micrometer in diameter
pitch length	The number of base pairs per turn of a duplex helix.
caged molecule	Organic molecule designed to change into an active form when irradiated with light of a specific wavelength
benzene	Molecule composed of a six-membered ring of carbon atoms, commonly drawn containing three alternating double bonds
heterothermy	The property of exhibiting different thermal relations from time to time or place to place
double-strand break	A cut through both strands of the DNA backbone, resulting in two exposed double-stranded ends.
inhibitor	any compound that reduces the velocity of an enzyme-catalyzed reaction measured in a biochemical assay, as represented by percent inhibition or IC50.
distributed generation	placing powergenerating modules of 30 megawatts or less near the end user
hemidesmosome	Specialized anchoring cell junction between an epithelial cell and the underlying basal lamina.
fingerprinting	A common term for methods that allow the rapid identification of particular types of bacteria (also known as "typing")
abraded	scraped or rubbed.
avalonia	n
sanger sequencing	A method used to determine a DNA sequence based upon the incorporation of dideoxynucleotides.
cofactor	Any nonprotein molecule or ion that is required for the proper functioning of an enzyme
electron donor	Molecule that easily gives up an electron, becoming oxidized in the process.
f- cell	A cell which does not contain the F-factor, and hence able to act as a recipient (female) in a conjugative DNA transfer in matings with F+ or Hfr strains.
immune response	The total immunological reaction of an organism
centromere	The region of a eukaryotic chromosome responsible for attachment to the mitotic or meiotic spindle leading to controlled partitioning of chromosomes during nuclear division.
alcohol	Polar organic molecule that contains a functional hydroxyl group (–OH) bound to a carbon atom that is not in an aromatic ring
sub-ocellate	an ocellate spot that is blind or without a pupil.
aposematic	Conspicuous warning coloration in potential prey species that advertises their toxicity or distastefulness to predators
leader sequence	A short amino acid sequence that determines the localization of a protein within the cell.
lab-on-a-chip	A microfabricated fluidics system designed to perform high-resolution biochemical analyses.
autoradiography	Detection of radioactivity in a sample, for example a cell or gel, by placing it in contact with a photographic film (e.g
mhc marker	A protein found on the surface of the cells of our bodied that enables or cells to be recognized by the immune system as belonging to the body….or at least ignored by the immune system
albumen	the white of egg or the substances in the tissues which have the same characteristics.
nucleic acid	Chain of nucleotides.
allergy	A harmful immune reaction, either immediat e-type or delayed-type hypersensitivity caused by a foreign antigen (i.e
hsp	Abbreviation for heat shock protein.
atrial natriuretic peptide	A member of a family of peptide hormones secreted by specialized cells in the atria of the heart that stimulate the excretion of water and sodium.
sympathetic division	One of two divisions of the autonomic nervous system of vertebrates; generally increases energy expenditure and prepares the body for action.
diurnal	Active in the daytime.
testate	covered; concealed: also used as = tectiform.
free radical	An unbound molecular fragment with an unpaired electron.
posttranslational	Describes any process involving a protein that occurs after protein synthesis is completed.
organelles	membrane-bound structures found inside the cell cytoplasm.
artery	A macroscopic blood vessel that carries blood away from the heart.
coriaceo-reticulate	with impressed reticulations giving a leather-like appearance.
anergy	Absence of reaction to antigens or allergens.
footprinting	A method for identification of a protein-binding site on a DNA molecule
plaque	A circular clearing on a lawn (continuous layer) of bacterial or culture cells, resulting from cell Iysis and production of phage or animal virus progeny.
e. coli	A small, simple bacteria used in many biology laboratories.
growth rate	The rate at which growth occurs, usually expressed as the generation time.
base	A general term referring to the subunits of DNA or RNA
heat-shock protein	Produced by many cells in response to extreme heat and other stresses; helps cells prevent damage from such stressing agents.
abiotic	The absence of living systems.
gangliosides	Sphingolipids, containing complex oligosaccharides as head groups; especially common in nervous tissue.
tst	Tberculin Skin Test
sporotrichosis	a lymphatic mycosis caused by Sporothrix schenckii (Hyphomycetes).
hydrogen bond	A weak electrostatic attraction between one electronegative atom (such as oxygen or nitrogen) and a hydrogen atom covalently linked to a second electronegative atom.
setose -ous	bristly or set with bristles.
triglyceride	See triacylglycerol.
fetus	In human beings, the unborn young from the eighth week of pregnancy to birth; an organism in the stage of development that follows the embryonic stage.
dendrochronology	/den-droh-krə-NAWL-ə-jee/ n
vernalization	The use of cold treatment to induce a plant to flower.
presymptomatic genetic testing	Testing people to determine whether they have inherited a disease-causing gene before the symptoms of the disease have appeared.
covalent bond	A chemical bond that involves sharing of electron pairs.
cristae	Structures formed by the folding of the inner membrane of a
oocyte	The most mature cell type of a female germ cell which, if fertilized by a sperm cell can form a new individual.
diploid cell	A cell that contains two chromosomes (2N) of each type.
cdk	see cyclin-dependent kinase
escherichia coli	See E
checkpoint	Any of several points in the eukaryotic cell cycle at which progression of a cell to the next stage can be halted until conditions are suitable
parasitism	A type of symbiosis where one partner benefits and the other one is harmed.
time constant	The time required for an exponential process to reach 63% of completion
local community	A geographically defined community of place, a group of species living and interacting together.
pentaploidy	Refers to the possession of five haploid sets of chromosomes (5n).
vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizas	endomycorrhizas; plant roots colonized by mutualistic fungi of the Glomales (some of which do not produce vesicles, suggesting that these mycorrhizas should simply be described as ARBUSCULAR MYCORRHIZAS).
active site	The region of an enzyme that binds substrates and catalyzes an enzymatic reaction.
isotope	One of several forms of an element, with a distinctive mass based on the number of neutrons in the atomic nucleus
net growth efficiency	In a growing animal, the chemical-bond energy of new biomass added by growth expressed as a ratio of the animal’s absorbed energy over the same time period.
rt-pcr psa	reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction; a blood test that detects micrometastatic cells circulating in the blood stream; may be useful as a screening tool to help avoid unnecessary invasive treatments (RP, RT, etc.) on patients with metastasized PC
adult-onset hd	The form of Huntington's disease which has an age of onset at or after age 20
carbon sink	natural reservoir that removes CO2 from the atmosphere
duodenum	/doo-AWD-ə-nəm/ n
reproductive rate	The number of progeny produced by a parent per unit of time as per year.
microtubule	nano-sized hollow cylinder with outer diameter between 20 nm and 30 nm
marine benthic zone	The ocean floor.
magnetotactic bacteria	Bacteria that can orient themselves in the earth's magnetic field due to the presence of magnetosomes.
sedimentary rock	Rock formed from sand and mud that once settled in layers on the bottom of seas, lakes, and marshes
entropy	Thermodynamic quantity that measures the degree of disorder in a system; the higher the entropy, the greater the disorder.
carcinogen	Substance which causes the initiation of tumor formation
omega-3 fatty acid	A type of fatty acid that our body derives from food
cell-mediated immunity	Immune reaction directed against body cells that have been infected by viruses
temperature	Temperature is really a way of measuring the average kinetic energy of all the molecules or atoms of the substance being studied
adipose tissue	Connective tissue specialized for the storage of large amounts of triacylglycerols.
lysosome	an organelle found in the cytoplasm of most cells (especially in leukocytes and liver and kidney cells)
homonymous	where the same name is applied to different conceptions.
chemoheterotroph	Organism that obtains energy and carbon from the oxidation of organic compounds.
resource ratio hypothesis	A proposal by David Tilman (1985) which models successional shifts in plant communities based on the assumption that succession is driven by a tradeoff in competition for nutrients in early succession, and for light in late succession.
ames test	Test in which special strains of bacteria are used to evaluate the potential of chemicals to cause cancer.
remission	the real or apparent disappearance of some or all or the signs and symptoms of cancer; the period (temporary or permanent) during which a disease remains under control, without progressing; even complete remission does not necessarily indicate cure
inverted repeat	A chromosome segment that is identical to another segment on the same chromosome except that it is oriented in the opposite direction.
cell sap	solution of sugar and salts.
chromosome aberration	A change in the gene sequence of a chromosome caused by deletion, duplication, inversion, or translocation.
mixture	physical combination of two or more substances present in variable amounts
cariose -us	of a soft, fleshy substance.
pre-scutellar callus	= post-alar callus: q.v.
frequency	number of waves passing a fixed point in one second
stoichiometry	The existence of fixed ratios in chemical reactions
intromittent	used for throwing within.
retractile	capable of being drawn in or retracted.
b cell	A B-lymphocyte.
margaritaceous	shining, like mother of pearl = nacreous; q.v.
logistic growth curve	Population growth that follows a sigmoid (S-shaped) curve in which numbers increase slowly at first, then rapidly, and finally level off as the population reaches its maximum size or carrying capacity for a particular environment.
aplysia	A small marine organism widely used for neurobiological studies.
ventro-dorsad	extending from belly to back.
heat capacity	The heat required to raise the temperature of a substance one degree Celsius.
cotyledon	n
mycorrhiza	A symbiotic association between a fungus and the roots of a plant.
osmotic pressure	The property of a solution that allows one to predict whether the solution will gain or lose water by osmosis when it undergoes exchange with another solution; osmosis is always from lower osmotic pressure to higher osmotic pressure
binotate	with two rounded spots.
nucleases	Enzymes that hydrolyze the internucleotide (phosphodiester) linkages of nucleic acids.
segregational genetic load	See Balanced genetic load.
central canal	The narrow cavity in the center of the spinal cord that is continuous with the fluid-filled ventricles of the brain.
metabolism	is transformation: the whole process or series of changes of food into tissue and cell-substance and of these latter into waste products the first of these changes being anabolic, the second katabolic.
leaving group	The departing or displaced molecular group in a unimolecular elimination or a bimolecular substitution reaction.
heteropolymer	A polymer containing more than one type of monomeric unit.
radiography	producing an image by radiation other than visible light, e.g., x-rays of one's teeth is done by radiography.
fossil record	All of the fossils that have existed throughout life's history, whether they have been found or not.
contiguous	so near together as to touch.
specific activity	The number of micromoles (μmol) of a substrate transformed by an enzyme preparation per minute per milligram of protein at 25°C; a measure of enzyme purity.
nuclear membrane	The envelope that surrounds and delimits the nucleus of eukaryotic cells
h+	see proton
cancer	Any malignant growth or tumor caused by abnormal and uncontrolled cell division.
bioelectronics	The study of intermolecular electron transfer in biological processes
blastogenic	relating to or inherent in the germ or blast.
cephalotheca	the united head and thorax of arachnids and crustacea {Scanner's note: nowadays this term is used little if at all
osmoconformer	An animal that does not actively adjust its internal osmolarity because it is isotonic with its environment.
vegetative reproduction	Asexual reproduction
parts per billion	1 part out of a billion parts, unit of concentration
histone	One of a group of small abundant proteins, rich in arginine and lysine, four of which form the nucleosome on the DNA in eucaryotic chromosomes.
shine-dalgarno sequence	A sequence in an mRNA required for binding prokaryotic ribosomes.
exons	The 
biota	All the organisms that are part of an ecosystem.
renal	Related to kidneys.
thermoregulation	The maintenance of a relatively constant body temperature.
ionophore	Small hydrophobic molecule that dissolves in lipid bilayers and increases their permeability to specific inorganic ions.
striolate -us	with finely impressed parallel lines.
low complexity	A region of protein sequence enriched for a single amino acid.
apterous	without wings.
electrotaxis	The movement of organisms in response to an electric field.
inhibition	Prevention of growth or function.
species coexistence	The long term co-occurrence of species in the same general location.
endergonic reaction	A reaction with a positive standard free energy change.
signal sequence	Short continuous sequence of amino acids that determines the eventual location of a protein in the cell
interaction	Strictly, the dependence of an outcome on a combination of causal factors, such that the outcome is not predictable from the average effects of the factors taken separately
camp	See cyclic AMP.
antibody	Produced by a B cell, a protein that circulates in the blood and other body fluids
blood-brain barrier	A semipermeable membrane that controls diffusion of molecules into the cerebrospinal fluid.
camera eye	An eye that optically resembles a camera, with a lens that focuses an image on a retina of light-sensitive cells.
secondary structure	For proteins refers to that aspect of a proteins three dimensional structure which is due to the geometry of amino acid bonding between adjacent amino acids and short range hydrogen bonding
postconsumer content	used material that would otherwise have been discarded as waste
induction	The process by which an enzyme is synthesized (induced) in response to the presence of an external substance, the inducer.
ångstrom	Unit of length used to measure atoms and molecules
classical conditioning	A type of associative learning; the association of a normally irrelevant stimulus with a fixed behavioral response.
hybridisation	Binding of two single stranded nucleic acid strands by complementary base pairing.
antigenic determinant	Specific region of an antigenic molecule that binds to an antibody or a T cell receptor.
benedict's reagent	chemical reagent used to test for simple (reducing) sugar; brick-red colour indicates positive results.
amino group	A functional group that consists of a nitrogen atom bonded to two hydrogen atoms; can act as a base in solution, accepting a hydrogen ion and acquiring a charge of I + .
beta diversity	Between-habitat diversity.
functional group	A specific configuration of atoms commonly attached to the carbon skeletons of organic molecules and usually involved in chemical reactions.
blastodermic cells	are those forming the blastoderm.
affinity chromatography	Type of chromatography in which the protein mixture to be purified is passed over a matrix to which specific ligands for the required protein are attached, so that the protein is retained on the matrix.
anaerobic	Lacking oxygen; referring to an organism, environment, or cellular process that lacks oxygen and may be poisoned by it.
mesozoic	the geological era comprising the Triassic, Jurassic and Cretaceous period (225-65 million years before present).
polymerase chain reaction	See PCR.
cardinal temperatures	the minimum, maximum and optimum temperatures of growth of an organism.
centimorgan	A unit of measure of 
fruit	In flowering plants, the structure which encloses the seeds
paleo-tethys ocean	n
herbivory	An interaction in which an herbivore eats parts of a plant or alga.
correlation coefficient	A statistical measure of the degree of linear relationship between two variables that indicates the strength of that relationship
cell-mediated immune response	The branch of acquired immunity that involves the activation of cytotoxic T cells, which defend against infected cells, cancer cells, and transplanted cells.
quaternary structure	The number and relative positions of the polypeptide chains in multisubunit proteins.
prehension	structures fitted for grasping or holding.
serrato-dentate	toothed, the edges themselves saw-toothed.
permeable	Able to let other substances pass through
antagonist**	An antagonist is a drug or a compound that opposes the physiological effects of another
megakaryocyte	Large myeloid cell with a multilobed nucleus that remains in the bone marrow when mature
metabolic pathways	A stepwise sequence of enzyme- mediated reaction
countercurrent multiplier system	A countercurrent system in which energy is expended in active transport to facilitate exchange of materials and create concentration gradients
mannoxylic	Wood in which there is a great deal of parenchyma tissue among the xylem is called mannoxylic
electron	subatomic particle with a much smaller mass than a proton or neutron and a negative electrical charge equal in magnitude to that of a proton, but opposite in sign
domain	n
circulate -us	having a cingulum or collar: see also cinetus.
synonymous	words of different derivation applied to the same conception.
introns	A noncoding, intervening sequence within a eukaryotic gene.
phage tail	Proteins that extend from a phage head and mediate adsorption to receptors on the host cell.
oval	egg-shaped, with both ends similar.
tom complex	Multisubunit protein complex that transports proteins across the mitochondrial outer membrane.
pyruvic acid	A three carbon organic acid that is a product of glycolysis.
diploid life cycle	Occurs when the only multicellular stage in an organism's life cycle is diploid.
abzyme	An antibody engineered to carry out an enzymatic reaction;a catalytic antibody
cleavage	A series of rapid mitotic cell divisions after fertilization.
sirolimus	Another name for the drug rapamycin, which has been shown to promote breakdown of huntingtin aggregates by inducing autophagy.
isotypical	a genus described from more than one species, all of which are congeneric.
cervix	The neck of the uterus, which opens into the vagina.
stoma	In plants, the small pores located usually on the lower surface of leaves through which gas exchange and transpiration takes place.
optimal foraging theory	The basis for analyzing behavior as a compromise of feeding costs versus feeding benefits.
subtriangular space	= internal triangle: see triangle.
protein	A polymeric molecule consisting of one or more polypeptides
aerobic	This term is applied to organisms which grow in the presence of oxygen
cespitose	matted together.
anticline	A fold of rock layers that is convex upwards
diffuse	spreading out; without distinct edge or margin.
precautionary principle	A guiding principle in making decisions about the environment, cautioning to consider carefully the potential consequences of actions.
fermentation	Enzyme-catalyzed reactions that occur without O2, such as reactions that accomplish the anaerobic breakdown of compounds to liberate energy for metabolic use.
micro-evolution	A change in the genetic make-up of a population through time due to one of the agents of evolution
marginal	of, belonging to, or near the margin.
up promoter mutation	A mutation that increasses expression from a promoter.
tm	Melting temperature
specific heat	The amount of heat that must be absorbed or lost for 1 g of a substance to change its temperature 1°C.
colony	A group of organisms of the same species living together in close association.
na+-k+ pump	Transmembrane carrier protein found in the plasma membrane of most animal cells that pumps Na+ out of and K+ into the cell, using energy derived from ATP hydrolysis.
granule	a little grain or grain-like elevation.
aspergillosis	any disease in man or animals caused by Aspergillus (esp
radiopharmaceutical	a drug containing a radioactive substance that is used in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer and in pain management of bone metastases
polar covalent bond	A type of covalent bond between atoms that differ in electronegativity
mass-to-charge ratio	The ratio of the mass of an ion being analyzed to its charge.
fixed action pattern	A highly stereotypical behavior that is innate and must be carried to completion once initiated.
creatine kinase	Creatine kinase (CK) is an enzyme found in muscle, brain, and other tissues
interocular	between the eyes.
sedimentary rock	Any rock resulting from the consolidation of sediment.
vertexal	occurring on or near the vertex, or directed toward it.
renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system	A part of a complex feedback circuit that helps regulate blood pressure and blood volume.
fuseo-testaceous	dull reddish brown [brown ocher].
tendon	A type of fibrous connective tissue that attaches muscle to bone.
rectum	The terminal portion of the large intestine where the feces are stored until they are eliminated.
osmotic pressure	A measure of the tendency of a solution to take up water when separated from pure water by a selectively permeable membrane.
bicornute	with two horns or cephalic processes.
ion	An atom or group of atoms that carries a positive or negative electric charge as a result of having lost or gained one or more electrons (negatively-charged particles)
ommateum	the compound eye.
ubiquinone	Another term for coenzyme Q10.
pentagon -um	a five-sided figure with five equal or unequal angles.
bactericidal	Capable of killing bacteria.
erythrocytes	red blood cells.
interstitial cells	See Leydig cells.
universal genetic code	The use of the same genetic code in all living organisms
complicate	longitudinally laid in folds: intricate as opposed to simple.
transcriptional control	The regulation of a protein's synthesis by regulation of the formation of its mRNA.
obcordate	inversely heart-shaped, with the point applied to the base of another object or part.
feedback inhibition	Type of regulation of metabolism in which an enzyme acting early in a reaction pathway is inhibited by a late product of that pathway.
digitiform	formed, shaped like or having the function of a finger.
hygroscopic	describes a substance that readily absorbs water from the atmosphere and retains it
trigonate	three-cornered; approximately triangular.
phospholipid	A lipid compound in which a phosphate group or groups occur
pharmacokinetics	The study of the absorption, distribution, metabolism, and elimination of drugs.
crystalline region	in a polymer, a region in which the long polymer molecules are arranged neatly and tightly in a regular pattern
compact bone	The outer dense layer that forms the shaft of the long bones; made up of concentric layers of mineral deposits surrounding a central opening
pentose	A sugar with five carbon atoms.
antidiuretic hormone	A hormone that promotes antidiuresis
dialysis	Removal of small molecules from a macromolecule preparation by allowing them to pass across a semipermeable membrane.
delta	n
northern blotting	See Southern blotting.
incidence	The number of new events (such as being born with HD) in a population during a specified period.
specific	term used to describe the unique relationships between an enzyme and its substrate where the enzyme is only able to act on that one type of substrate and their molecules fit together like a lock and key.
biochemistry	the study of those molecules used and manufactured by living things.
light independent reactions	The Calvin cycle and other related reactions in photosynthesis where by carbon dioxide is fixed from the atmosphere and hydrogen ions and electrons are added to produce sugars, specifically PGAL.
deorsum	downward.
co-chaperone	The role that one molecular chaperone plays in assisting another; for example, heat-shock protein 40 is a co-chaperone for heat-shock protein 70 because it assists in making direct links between heat-shock protein 70 and its target protein.
unequal crossing over	The result of improper pairing between chrornatids, causing their crossover products to differ from each other in the amounts of genetic material.
entropy	The randomness of a system.
porcate	marked with raised longitudinal lines.
micrometre	unit of length equal to one thousandth of a millimetre
multiplicity of infection	(MOI)
methyltetrahydrofolate	Along with methionoine synthase, methyltetrahydrofolate is an enzyme responsible for the addition of a methyl group to the sulfur atom of homocysteine to form methionine.
species	In biology a species generally taken to be either the lowest level of taxonomic classification or a group of interbreeding individuals that are reproductively isolated from other organisms
food poisoning	Disease resulting from ingestion of food contaminated with a toxin produced by a microorganism.
dentate-sinuate	toothed and indented.
target validation	Verifying that a DNA, RNA, or protein is involved in a disease process and is a suitable target for therapeutic compound development.
relevant	A protein or molecule is relevant to a disease if it contributes to the disease mechanism or its symptoms in some manner.
heparan	A glycosaminoglycan.
transposon tag	Use of a transposon insertion in a gene to follow the inheritance of the gene
astrocyte	Another term for a spider cell.
neuroglia	The supporting tissue of the nervous system; made up of neuroglial cells
disaccharide	"double sugar" formed by joining two monosaccharide units
selective medium	see MEDIUM.
reductionism	The concept that explanations for events at one level of complexity can or should be reduced to explanations at a more basic level
paradigm	In biochemistry, an experimental model or example.
anaerobe	Any microorganism that grows in the absence of molecular oxygen.
negative dominance	A gene product that inhibits the function of another gene product.
phosphodiester linkage	A chemical grouping that contains two alcohols esterified to one molecule of phosphoric acid, which thus serves as a bridge between them.
map unit	A unit of genetic length derived from recombination frequency
thermodynamic equilibrium	A chemical reaction is in thermodynamic equilibrium when the forward and reverse rates of the reaction are equal, that is the net reaction rate is zero.
circadian rhythms	Biorhythms that occur on a daily cycle
detritus	Dead organic matter.
deaurate	of the color of gold; golden.
osteoblast	Cell that secretes matrix of bone.
excurved	curved outwards.
induced enzyme	An enzyme subject to induction.
reticuloendothelial	the widely diffused bodily system constituting all phagocytic cells except certain white blood cells
instinctive	Genetically determined.
fetal cell sorting	Separation of fetal cells from maternal blood
collagen fibril	Extracellular structure formed by self-assembly of secreted fibrillar collagen subunits
amniotic egg	A shelled, water-retaining egg that enables reptiles, birds, and egg-laying mammals to complete their life cycles on dry land.
morphology	Study of the anatomical form and structure of organisms.
intermediate filaments	Cytoskeletal fibers (10 nm in diameter) formed by polymerization of several classes of cell-specific subunit proteins including keratins, lamins, and vimentin
relaxation	The self-adjustment of a molecular system to a new minimum free energy state after the perturbation of the system.
apf	Assigned protection factor.
equilibrium	State where there is no net change in a system
quantized	noncontinuous energy distribution that consists of many individual steps
gtpase superfamily	Group of GTP-binding proteins that cycle between an inactive state with bound GDP and an active state with bound GTP
copulate	to unite in sexual intercourse.
b cell	See B lymphocyte.
leaching	Removal of valuable metals form ores by microbial action.
real-time pcr	Also called quantitative PCR or qPCR, a technique that uses fluorescently labeled molecules to track the accumulation of amplified products with each cycle of PCR.
housekeeping gene	Gene serving a function required in all the cell types of an organism, regardless of their specialized role.
diauxic growth	A biphasic growth curve, typically resulting from the sequential use of multiple nutrients (e.g
eclipse period	The period of time after infection with a virus during which new virions are formed, but not released (contrast with latent period).
photosynthetic pigment	A molecule that captures energy from sunlight by absorbing photons.
nitrogenase complex	Complex of enzymes in nitrogen-fixing bacteria that catalyzes the reduction of atmospheric N2 to ammonia.
complex medium	A medium whose precise chemical composition is unknown
membrane transport	Movement of a polar solute across a membrane via a specific membrane protein (a transporter).
viroid	An autonomously replicating plant pathogen.
proton donor	The donor of a proton in an acid-base reaction; that is, an acid.
dehydration reaction	A chemical reaction in which two molecules covalently bond to each other with the removal of a water molecule.
dehydrogenase	An enzyme that catalyzes the removal of hydrogen from a molecule (oxidation).
negative cooperativity	A phenomenon of some multisubunit enzymes or proteins in which binding of a ligand or substrate to one subunit impairs binding to another subunit.
isotonic	Having the same solute concentration as another solution.
free energy	The energy that can be extracted from a system to drive reactions
swim bladder	In aquatic osteichthyans, an air sac that enables the animal to control its buoyancy in the water.
sigma factor	A protein that functions as a subunit of bacterial RNA polymerases and is responsible for specificity of recognition of promoters
hydrolases	Enzymes (proteases, lipases, phosphatases, nucleases, for example) that catalyze hydrolysis reactions.
nephridium	A simple excretory system found in many invertebrates which often relies on diffusion combined with current flow set up be a series of ciliated cells called flame cells.
sporopollenin	A secondary product, a polymer synthesized by a side branch of a major metabolic pathway of plants that is resistant to almost all kinds of environmental damage; especially important in the evolutionary move of plants onto land.
second law of thermodynamics	The principle whereby every energy transfer or transformation increases the entropy of the universe
in-vitro fertilization	The process by which eggs and sperm are combined in a laboratory setting outside of the body.
steroid	A group of four-ring hydrocarbons including cholesterol and related compounds
subpopulation	Subgroup of individuals isolated from other member of the larger or total population.
conjunctiva	kuhn-juhnk-TIGH-vuh/ Clear mucous membrane that lines the sclera and the interior of the eyelids.
stem cells	identical, undifferentiated cells that, by successive divisions, can give rise to specialized ones like blood cells
hydrogen bond	A hydrogen bond is an electrostatic attraction between hydroxyl(OH) parts of a molecule and other charged parts of the same or different molecules
prosthetic group	Synonymous with coenzyme except that a prosthetic group is usually more firmly attached to the enzyme it serves.
pre-oral	in front of the mouth: the embryonic head segments before those bearing the mouth parts.
dentatorubro-pallidoluysian atrophy	A CAG trinucleotide repeat disorder that is characterized by abrupt muscle jerking, involuntary movements, and eventual dementia
topoisomers	Different forms of a covalently closed, circular DNA molecule that differ only in their linking number.
dna polymerase iii	Bacterial DNA polymerase that synthesizes new nucleotide strands off the primers.
glandular epithelium	An epithelium that absorbs or secretes chemical solutions.
isotopes	Different forms of an element that have the same number of protons and electrons but differ in the number of neutrons in the nucleus.
ultra-high-throughput system	A high-throughput system capable of processing 100,000 samples a day.
methionine cycle	The cycling of methionine to SAM, homocysteine, and back to methionine.
catabolite	A catabolite is a naturally occurring metabolite.
cretaceous	chalky white: the third, uppermost and latest of the three great divisions of the mesozoic or secondary rocks.
f-factor	An E
hydroxyl	Chemical group consisting of a hydrogen atom linked to an oxygen, as in an alcohol.
uncoupling agent	A substance that uncouples phosphorylation of ADP from electron transfer; for example, 2,4-dinitrophenol.
invasiveness	Degree to which an organism is able to spread through the body from a focus of infection.
pfu	Abbreviation for plaque forming unit.
adult form	Another term for adult-onset HD.
pilus	Extension of the surface of some bacteria that allows conjugation to take place
muscle	Bundle of contractile cells which allow animals to move
stylopized	infested by a member of the Stylopidae.
evanescent	disappearing; becoming gradually less.
enzyme	Protein that catalyzes a specific chemical reaction.
ex vivo	The external alteration of tissue taken from an organism and subsequently returned to the organism.
morphotype	n
innervate	to supply with nerves.
homeosis	Evolutionary alteration in the placement of different body parts.
computational chemistry**	Computational chemistry is a discipline using mathematical methods for the calculation of molecular properties or for the simulation of molecular behaviour.
hydrogen bond	electrostatic attraction between a hydrogen atom bearing a partial positive charge in one molecule and an O, N, or F atom bearing a partial negative charge in a neighboring molecule
autotroph	An organism that can form its organic constituents from CO2.
glycolysis	The reactions that convert glucose to pyruvic acid.
symmetry	that regular arrangement of organs or parts which is capable of division into similar halves or similar radii.
centimeter	abb
cnidarian	nigh-DAR-ee-uhn/ (1) of or relating to Phylum Cnidaria; (2) a member of Phylum Cnidaria.
amino acid activation	ATP-dependent enzymatic esterification of the carboxyl group of an amino acid to the 3'-hydroxyl group of its corresponding tRNA.
lithium chloride	A chemical that is injected below the skin and works with quinolinic acid to reduce the loss of nerve cells and promote neurogenesis in the striatum of the brain.
sporophyll	Any leaf which bears sporangia is called a sporophyll.
anion-exchange resin	A polymeric resin with fixed cationic groups; used in the chromatographic separation of anions.
spotted array	Array generated by microspotting nucleic acids on a glass, plastic, or filter substrate.
orismologia -y	the defining of scientific or technical terms.
fixative	Chemical reagent such as formaldehyde or osmium tetroxide used to preserve cells for microscropy
rectoprostatic	the area between the prostate and its neighboring rectal wall
solid phase extraction	A sample purification method based on the affinity of either the desired or undesired components of a reaction mixture for a solid material and subsequent filtration of the solid material from the reaction.
kinases	Enzymes that catalyze the phosphorylation of certain molecules by ATP.
somnolence	Sleepiness; drowsiness.
serine protease	Type of protease that has a reactive serine in the active site.
ham/tsp	HTLV-1-Associated Myelopathy/Tropical Spastic Paraparesis
f factor	A large bacterial plasmid, known as the sex-factor plasmid because it permits mating between F+ and F- bacteria.
excitatory	Referring to the effect that a substance has on a nerve cell
law of independent assortment	Genetic factors that influence one trait segregate independently from those that influence a second trait.
vaccine	A harmless variant or derivative of a pathogen that stimulates a host's immune system to mount defenses against the pathogen.
base pairs	See Complementary base pairs.
lamina	Any broad and flattened region of a plant or alga, which allows for increased photosynthetic surface area.
xenotropic virus	A virus that can be grown in a species different from the normal host species.
tight junction	Cell–cell junction that seals adjacent epithelial cells together, preventing the passage of most dissolved molecules from one side of the epithelial sheet to the other.
abductor	applied to muscles that open out or extend an appendage or draw it away from the body: see adductor.
funicule	a small, cord-like structure; especially when sheathed.
double digestion	Cleavage of a DNA molecule with two different restriction endonucleases, either concurrently or consecutively.
animal pole	The portion of the egg where the least yolk is concentrated; opposite of vegetal pole.
planarian	A free-living flatworm found in unpolluted ponds and streams.
tropico-politan	occurring in all tropical regions.
inter se	Among themselves.
catenane	A circular DNA molecule with two or more interlinked rings.
chordate	n
acne	A skin inflammation affecting approximately 80% of those between the ages of 12 and 24
δg	see free-energy change
conidiospore	An asexual spore produced in a chain from a condiophore.
scabrose -ous	rough like a file, with small raised points.
food chain/food web	All the interactions of predator and prey, included along with the exchange of nutrients into and out of the soil
redox potential	The relative tendency of a pair of molecules to release or accept an electron
rna processing control	Control of gene expression by controlling how the RNA transcript is spliced or otherwise processed.
loam	The most fertile of all soils, made up of roughly equal amounts of sand, silt, and clay.
mitosoma	the middle piece of a developing spermatozoon.
artificial selection	Selection process in which humans are the selective agents.
sebific	oily; sebaceous; somewhat sticky.
l-	A configurational prefix that designates one of two chiral configurations (see D-).
fluorescence polarization	The partial polarization of light emitted from fluorescent molecules.
blunt end	The end of a DNA molecule at which both strands terminate at the same nucleotide position with no single-stranded extension.
kettle lakes	n
secretory vesicle	Small membrane-bound organelle containing molecules destined to be released from the cell.
intricate	irregular: confused; applied to markings and sculpture.
porin	A trimeric transmembrane protein that forms channels in the bacterial outer membrane
equilibrium concept	Especially with regard to models of ecosystems, the concept attaches fundamental significance to the idea that there is a steady state toward which populations return when disturbed or toward which communities evolve, even when disturbed
contractile vacuoles	A membranous sac that helps move excess water out of the cell.
glycogen	A polysaccharide produced by animals for short term energy storage
dermad	/DERM-ad/ adv
commensalism	Interaction between organisms where one organism benefits from the association while the second organism remains unaffected.
colonization	Multiplication of a microorganism after it has attached to host tissues or other surfaces.
peptide bond	covalent bond that forms when the —COOH group of one amino acid reacts with the —NH2 group of another, thus joining the two amino acids
cofactor	Any nonprotein molecule or ion that is required for the proper functioning of an enzyme can be permanently bound to the active site or may bind loosely with the substrate during catalysis.
homosporous	Producing only one size or kind of spore
hexapodal -ous	provided with six feet.
rain shadow	n
monoamine oxidase	An enzyme found primarily in the liver and nervous system that generates free radicals.
diastasis	/die-AST-ə-səs/ n
linear	straight; in the form of a right line.
prevalence	The proportion of individuals in a population having a given disease.
monogamous	a union where a female is fertilized by one male only.
cost	A reduction in fitness caused by a correlated effect of a feature that provides an increment in fitness (i.e., a benefit).
renal vein	The blood vessel draining the kidney
imidazole group	A type of chemical group, found on the amino acid histidine and some other compounds, that is often extremely important in buffering body fluids because of its particular chemical buffering properties.
proton	A positively charged particle found in the nucleus of an atom
association constant	See equilibrium constant.
pentose	A five-carbon monosaccharide
hypotonic	Describes any medium with a sufficiently low concentration of solutes to cause water to move into a cell due to osmosis.
prednisone	Most commonly used glucocorticoid because of its high glucocorticoid activity, which reduces the risk of dangerous side effects caused by mineralocorticoids
cellulose	A form of carbohydrate that has a structural role in living organisms (animals and plants).
telemetry	See radiotelemetry.
agamic -ous	reproducing without union with a male.
induction	In developmental biology, a change in the developmental fate of one tissue caused by an interaction with another tissue
false negative	A test result that wrongly shows an effect to be absent.
impressions	Prints or marks made when an organism's body has been compressed (flattened)
biomass	The mass of material produced by living micoorganisms, plants, or animals.
heterotypical	a genus, described from more than one species, these differing in structure,
chloroplast	Organelle in green algae and plants that contains chlorophyll and carries out photosynthesis
t-dna	The portion of the Ti plasmid transferred from Agrobacterium to the plant DNA.
arrayer	Robot for making microarrays
apoenzyme	The protein portion of an enzyme, exclusive of any organic or inorganic cofactors or prosthetic groups that might be required for catalytic activity.
greenhouse effect	The warming of planet Earth due to the atmospheric accumulation of carbon dioxide, which absorbs reflected infrared radiation and re-refJects some of it back toward Earth.
introse -um	directed inward, toward the body.
deciduous	Teeth that are replaced during development by permanent teeth.
ambient air	the outside air, that is, the air surrounding or encircling us
lewis structure	representation of an atom or molecule that shows its outer electrons
paleobiology	n
ginkgolide	A component of the terpenoids that have been shown to have anti-inflammatory effects
yeast extract	A water soluble preparation extracted from common yeast
stress-induced proteins	Molecules, including heat-shock proteins, that are produced within cells in response to exposure to marked increases in temperature and to other forms of severe stress, such as toxins, rapid pH changes, and viral infections.
decomposer	Any of the saprobic fungi and prokaryotes that absorb nutrients from nonliving organic material such as corpses, fallen plant material, and the wastes of living organisms, and convert them into inorganic forms.
dactyl	/DAKT-əl/ n
secondary structure	Specific configuration, caused by hydrogen bonds along its length, of a polypeptide within a protein; it may take on an alpha-helix, beta-pleated sheet, or a mixed configuration.
comparative method	A procedure for inferring the adaptive function of a character by correlating its states in various taxa with one or more variables, such as ecological factors hypothesized to affect its evolution.
ascites	An accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity
dominance deviation	Deviation of the genetic value from the additive genetic value (breeding value) for genotypes at a single locus.
photorespiration	Oxygen consumption occurring in illuminated temperate-zone plants, largely due to oxidation of phosphoglycolate.
connective tissue	Any supporting tissue that lies between other tissues and consists of cells embedded in a relatively large amount of extracellular matrix
conservation	The retention of sequence and 3-D structure by biomolecules under varying environmental and genetic conditions.
absorption	(gen.) The taking in, incorporation or reception of gases, liquids, light or heat.(phys/chem) Penetration of one substance into the inner structure of another (cf
probe	In general, probe refers to any biochemical/nucleic acid/oligo etc
power density	energy capacity per unit of fuel cell mass
glutamate	An amino acid precursor
backup	The optimized drug that is selected as the next most likely to be successfully developed as a therapy in further experiments and trials, and will be used if the lead compound is not successful.
developmental biology	The study of the processes by which an organism changes from a single cell into a mature, multicellular individual.
ph	The negative logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration of an aqueous solution.
basal medium	A(n) (unsupplemented) medium which allows the growth of many types of microorganisms which do not require any special nutrient supplements, e.g
coccoid	Sphere-shaped.
active site	Region of an enzyme surface to which a substrate molecule binds in order to undergo a catalyzed reaction.
er	see endoplasmic reticulum
utricle	A chamber behind the oval window that opens into the three semicircular canals.
dexamethasone	A glucocorticoid drug with high glucocorticoid activity and low mineralocorticoid activity that is therefore relatively safe to use in high doses.
gradualism	A model of evolution that assumes slow, steady rates of change
in vivo	Processes that occur in the living organism, in contrast to those performed in the laboratory (latter is in vitro, i.e
virulence	Degree of pathogenicity of a parasite.
rotatory	an articulation that permits a rotating motion, e.g
phenotype	The observable characteristics of an organism.
dna methylation	Addition of a methyl group to DNA
agglomerate	heaped or massed together.
genus	A taxonomic category above the species level, designated by the first word of a species' two-part scientific name.
pseudopod	A transient protrusion or retractile process associated with cell movement and feeding.
in situ oligonucleotide synthesis	On-chip synthesis of oligonucleotides or peptide nucleic acids.
synergy	When effects of two factors (such as toxicity of two chemicals) combine so that their effect together is significantly greater than the sum of the effects of each factor by itself.
excited state	An energy-rich state of an atom or molecule; produced by the absorption of light energy.
r-selection	A type of selection that favors organisms with a high biotic potential and are able to colonize a habitat rapidly, utilizing the food and other resources before other organisms are established and begin to compete.
agrobacterium tumefaciens	A bacterium that is used for plant genetic engineering.
stop codons	See termination codons.
current	rate of electron flow
encephalomyopathy lactic acidosis	Another term for MELAS.
escherichia coli	Rodlike bacterium normally found in the colon of humans and other mammals and widely used in biomedical research.
coenzyme	A molecule required for the activity of another enzyme.
glycoprotein	A molecule that consists of a sugar bonded to a protein.
allelic discrimination	A type of PCR assay used to detect polymorphisms, including single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), in a target sequence.
contraceptive	KAWN-truh-SEP-tiv/ Any device or drug preventing pregnancy.
poly-	many, much.
analog	A drug whose physical structure is related to that of another drug
gel electrophoresis	The process of separating charged species by subjecting them to a voltage gradient
surface tension	a measure of how difficult it is to stretch or break the surface of a liquid
malonate	An inhibitor of complex II of the electron transport chain.
single-gene disorder	Hereditary disorder caused by a 
enzyme	A type of protein that speeds the rate of a specific biochemical reaction, making it fast enough to be compatible with life.
reading frame	The phase in which nucleotides are read in sets of three to encode a protein
rna interference	A technique to silence the expression of selected genes in nonmammalian organisms
malignant tumor	Consists of cells that are capable of invading other tissues.
probability	Likelihood of a particular event occurring; more formally, the number of times a particular event occurs divided by the number of all possible outcomes
secondary production	The amount of chemical energy in consumers' food that is converted to their own new biomass during a given time period.
disaccharide	Carbohydrate molecule consisting of two covalently joined monosaccharide units
huntingtin aggregates	Rigid clumps of protein that form when a cell produces the altered form of huntingtin that causes HD
anoxygenic photosynthesis	Type of photosynthesis in green and purple bacteria in which oxygen is not produced.
genome	The full set of genetic material of an organism.
aminoacyl-trna synthetases	Enzymes that catalyze synthesis of an aminoacyltRNA at the expense of ATP energy.
decubation	/deck-you-BAY-shən/ n
pronucleus	the nucleus of male and female elements, spermatozoa and ova, the union of which forms the nucleus of a fertilized ovum.
cerebral lupus	A chronic autoimmune disease characterized by inflammation in the brain.
germ layer	three main layers that form the various tissues and organs of an animal body
gene	Hereditary unit that occupies a specific locus within the genome or chromosome and which can have one or more specific effects on the phenotype of the organism
negative feedback	Regulation of a biochemical pathway achieved when a reaction product inhibits an earlier step in the pathway.
apomorphy	A character that has been derived from, yet differs from, the ancestral condition
orthologous	A gene present in multiple species that descended from a unique ancestral gene, when the relative divergence in different species is comparable to the overall difference between the species
chlorophyll a	A type of blue-green photosynthetic pigment that participates directly in the light reactions.
sub-frontal	close to the front; immediately behind the front margin.
temporary environmental effect	Effect which influences only a single observation on an individual.
dna binding domain	A general term for a single- or double-stranded region of DNA for which a specific protein has an affinity to bind.
competition	One of the biological interactions that can limit population growth; occurs when two species vie with each other for the same resource
bedrock	n
sib	Brother or sister
osmoregulation	How organisms regulate solute concentrations and balance the gain and loss of water
dehiscence zone	The region of a pod or capsule that breaks open to release the seeds.
panmixis	See Random mating.
amide	Molecule containing a carbonyl group linked to an amine.
rebound	v
eotransport	The simultaneous transport, by a single transporter, of two solutes across a membrane
geological time scale	The correlation between rocks (or the fossils contained in them) and time periods of the past.
intramolecular force	force that exists within a molecule
latescent	becoming obscure or hidden.
pelagic	inhabiting the sea, far from land.
derived	adj
dicotyledon	/die-cawt-əl-EE-dən/ n
el niã‘southern oscillation	A climate pattern that occurs across the tropical Pacific Ocean on average every three to seven years and affects trade winds and ocean currents due to a redistribution of heat.
phagocytic	Cellular engulfment of external material
proteomics	The simultaneous detection and measurement of large suites of proteins being synthesized by cells or tissues
connate	united at base, or along the whole length.
alleles	Alternative forms of a gene.
food irradiation	process of subjecting food to high-energy ionizing radiation to kill or reduce the levels of undesirable contaminants such as bacteria, spores, and insects
base	A substance that can accept a proton in solution
base pairing	attraction between complemetary nitrogenous bases that produces a force that holds the two strands of the DNA double helix together.
neoantigen	A cellular antigen acquired after transformation by an oncogenic virus.
sequencing	Determination of a DNA sequence by either of two methods: The chemical cleavage method, developed by Maxam and Gilbert, is today hardly used, or the controlled interruption of enzymatic replication (Sanger et al.)
gametes	Reproductive cells with a haploid gene content; sperm or egg cells.
hemizygous	Gene present in a single dose as is found, for example, at sex linked loci in the heterogametic sex.
complex carbohydrates	polysaccharides such as starch, cellulose, and glycogen
oligosaccharide	A molecule consisting of a small number of monosaccharide units.
generalized transduction	The transfer of any region of the host chromosome into a recipient cell packaged in phage particles
aldose	A simple sugar in which the carbonyl carbon atom is an aldehyde; that is, the carbonyl carbon is at one end of the carbon chain.
secondary immune response	Clone of cells generated when a memory cell encounters an antigen; provides long-lasting immunity.
downy mildews	serious plant diseases caused by obligately parasitic fungi, such as Peronospora and Plasmopara (Peronosporales: Oomycota).
brewing	The manufacture of alcoholic beverages such as beer from the fermentation of malted grains.
krebs cycle	A method of describing the steps involved in the chemical process of respiration.
toxicity	intrinsic health hazard of a substance
antigenic variation	The ability to change the antigens displayed on the cell surface; a property of some pathogenic microorganisms that enables them to evade attack by the immune system.
high-mannose oligosaccharide	Chain of sugars attached to a glycoprotein which contains many mannose residues
water-soluble	Capable of being dissolved in water.
cbct	Community-Based Clinical Trials
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis	A progressive and fatal disorder affecting nerve cells that involves overactivation of glutamate receptors.
micelle	An aggregate of amphipathic molecules in water, with the nonpolar portions in the interior and the polar portions at the exterior surface, exposed to water.
lysosome	A cell organelle containing digestive enzymes.
critical load	The amount of added nutrient, usually nitrogen or phosphorus, that can be absorbed by plants without damaging ecosystem integrity.
lactic acid fermentation	A type of fermentation carried out by lactic acid bafcteria in which sugar (e.g
hypoptere	= tegula; q.v..
half-life	The time required for the disappearance of one half of a substance.
rna splicing	Process in which intron sequences are excised from RNA transcripts in the nucleus during formation of messenger and other RNAs.
insertion element	A transposable nucleotide sequence that only encodes the functions required for its own transposition
ribosome	Particle composed of ribosomal RNAs and ribosomal proteins that associates with messenger RNA and catalyzes the synthesis of protein.
salt	A compound resulting from the formation of an ionic bond; also called an ionic compound.
dyskinesia	An impairment in voluntary movement ability.
integral membrane protein	Any membrane-bound protein all or part of which interacts with the hydrophobic core of the phospholipid bilayer and can be removed from the membrane only by extraction with detergent; also called intrinsic membrane protein
circular	round like a circle.
litter	Leaf litter, or forest litter, is the detritus of fallen leaves and bark which accumulate in forests.
heterocercal	Fish tail in which the vertebral axis is curved (usually upward)
antennal lobes	of brain, see deuto-cerebrum.
light microscope	An optical instrument with lenses that refract (bend) visible light to magnify images of specimens.
clinical trial	The process by which new drugs are tested in humans in hopes of winning Food and Drug Administration approval so that the drugs can be sold in the United States.
ribonucleic acid	A polymer of nucleotides connected via a phosphate-ribose backbone, involved in protein synthesis.
electrochemical gradient	drive the diffusion of ions across a membrane 1
hydrostatic pressure	The pressure exerted by a liquid
renaturation	Refolding of an unfolded (denatured) globular protein so as to restore native structure and protein function.
transaminases	See aminotransferases.
repeat sequences	The length of a nucleotide sequence that is repeated in a tandem cluster.
eicosanoid	Any fatty acid with 20 carbons.
enzyme*	An enzyme is a macromolecule, usually a protein, that functions as a (bio) catalyst by increasing the reaction rate.
remediation	Improving an existing ecosystem or creating a new one with the aim of replacing another that has deteriorated or been destroyed.
fusco-ferruginous	brownish rust red.
floodplain	n
body plan	In animals, the set of morphological and developmental traits that define a grade (level of organizational complexity).
cap	the spreading, often umbrella-like, gill- or tube-bearing part of an agaric, more technically known as the pileus.
alkane	Compound of carbon and hydrogen that has only single covalent bonds
compressed	flattened laterally.
high-energy compound	A compound that undergoes hydrolysis with a high negative standard free energy change.
distillation	separation process in which a solution is heated to its boiling point and the vapors of the various components are condensed and collected
homeostasis	A state of balance in the body maintained by several complex biological mechanisms that operate to offset disruptive changes.
cauliculus	the larger of the two stalks supporting the calyx of the mushroom body.
taenia	a broad longitudinal stripe.
hamanatto	an Oriental food obtained by fermenting whole soybeans with Aspergillus oryzae; tao-cho (Malaysia); tao-si (Philippines); tu su (China).
phylum	In classification, the taxonomic category above class.
ion	a charged atom or group of atoms.
mushroom bodies	two stalked, mushroom-like bodies arising from procerebral lobes; supposed to be the seat of insect intelligence.
alopecia	Baldness.
pancreas	A gland located near the stomach of vertebrates that secretes digestive enzymes into the small intestine and releases insulin into the bloodstream.
autosomal dominant	The inheritance pattern of a dominant allele on an autosome
amniocentesis	Procedure used for prenatal genetic testing to obtain a sample of amniotic fluid from a pregnant woman
prismatic	formed like a prism: a play of colors similar to that produced through a prism.
polyacrylamide gel	A matrix of acrylamide polymers cross-linked using bis-acrylamide
bifurcation	a forking or division into two: the point at which a forking occurs.
epigenesis	A cartilaginous flap that blocks the top of the windpipe, the glottis, during swallowing, which prevents the entry of food or fluid into the respiratory system.
ambulacra	Row of tube feet of an echinoderm.
species	Viruses were grouped according to their shared properties (not those of their hosts) and the type of nucleic acid forming their genomes.
universal indicator	chemical which indicates pH.
eburneous	ivory white.
cftr	see cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator.
vitreous	glassy; transparent.
catalyst	A compound that facilitates a chemical reaction—in which covalent bonds are made or broken—without, in the end, being modified by the reaction
uridine	A nucleoside form of uracil.
oligomenorrhea	Infrequent or very light menstruation; risk factor for osteoporosis.
apolipoprotein	The protein component of a lipoprotein.
attenuation1	Reduction in the virulence of a pathogen; usually an attenuated pathogen is still capable of immunizing.
cyst	n
semiconductor	material that does not normally conduct electricity or heat well, but that can do so under certain conditions, such as exposure to sunlight
sexual conflict	Both sexes seek to optimize their reproductive success, but their genetic interests are not aligned.
upper respiratory tract	The nasopharynx, oral cavity, and throat.
dendritic	applied to the branched nerve cells in the mushroom bodies of the pro-cerebrum.
coenzyme q10	Also called ubiquinone, or CoQ10
amplificatus	dilated; enlarged.
morphology	n
chemical genomics	The large-scale study of biological processes based on small-molecule intervention.
redox reaction	See oxidation-reduction reaction.
normal	of the usual form or type: not out of the ordinary.
retina	that portion of the eye upon which the image is formed.
propupa	a semi-pupa: q.v.
net primary production	The gross primary production of an ecosystem minus the energy used by the producers for respiration.
two-hybrid system	A method for studying protein-protein interactions
chemotherapy	Treatment of infectious disease with chemicals or antibiotics.
fingerprinting	See peptide mapping.
moi	See Multipilicity Of Infection.
chemical equilibrium	No new change in concentraion of reactants and products in a reversible chemical reaction.
cardiac muscle	The type of muscle that is found in the walls of the heart
fossorial	formed for or with the habit of digging or burrowing.
intestine	The portion of the digestive tract between the stomach and anus; it is the region where most of the nutrients and absorbed.
propagation	Spatial transmission of a signal such as an action potential without any decrease in amplitude with distance.
municipal solid waste	garbage, that is, everything you discard or throw into your trash, including food scraps, grass clippings, and old appliances
alt	Alanine aminotransferase.
organic compound	A chemical comound containing the element carbon and usually synthesized by cells.
saha	Abbreviation for suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid.
dialysis	Removal of small molecules from a solution of a macromolecule, by allowing them to diffuse through a semipermeable membrane into water.
orbital	The three-dimensional space where an electron is found 90% of the time.
generalist	Organism which can survive under a wide variety of conditions, and does not specialize to live under any particular set of circumstances.
deciduous	falling off, as leaves that are shed in the autumn; used to describe the sporangia of downy mildew fungi (Peronosporales: Oomycota).
lipid bilayer	Thin bimolecular sheet of mainly phospholipid molecules that forms the core structure of all cell membranes
cdna arrays	Developed at Stanford University; the microarrays are glass slides on which cDNA has been deposited by high-speed robotic printing and suited for expression analysis of up to 10,000 cDNA clones per array from EST sequencing projects
law of segregation	Mendel's first law, stating that allele pairs separate during gamete formation, and then randomly re-form pairs during the fusion of gametes at fertilization.
vitelline membrane	the delicate tissue surrounding the yolk of an egg.
spermatozoön-zoa	the male cell or cells which, by uniting with the ova, fertilize them.
alzheimer's disease	A neurodegenerative disease that causes progressive memory loss and severe dementia in advanced cases
bradytelic	A relatively slow evolutionary rate.
basement rock	n
salicylates	A group of drugs to which aspirin belongs.
ala	Abbreviation for alpha-linolenic acid.
arthroderm	the outer skin or covering of articulates.
carbohydrates	class of biochemical compounds which includes sugars, starch, chitin, and steroids.
epistasis	  A mode of genetic inheritance where a homozygous recessive gene pair prevents the expression of a gene pair at another locus.
coniferous	a surface which bears cone-like processes.
target site	A specific sequence of amino acids in a protein that serve as the point at which the protein interacts with other specific proteins.
electromagnetic spectrum	continuum of waves ranging from very long and low-energy radio waves to very short and high-energy X-rays and gamma rays
etiology	the cause or origin of a disease.
peptide bond	The covalent bond between two amino acid units, formed by a dehydration reaction
paleomagnetism	The magnetic fields of ferrous (iron- containing) materials in ancient rocks
reducing agent	The electron donor in a redox reaction.
congo craton	n
ph	A measure of how acidic or basic a solution is
optimization	The process by which a chemical compound is modified by chemical or biological means to make it interact more effectively with the biological target.
columella	A small column of tissue which runs up through the center of a spore capsule
fat	A biological compound consisting of three fatty acids linked to one glycerol molecule
procaryote	Single-celled microorganism whose cells lack a well-defined, membrane-enclosed nucleus
hyphae	Multicellular filaments formed during the vegetative reproduction of fungi or actinomycetes.
amine	Chemical group containing nitrogen and hydrogen
body mass index	The BMI is the result of a formula that uses your weight and height to determine whether you need to lose weight.
erythropoietin	A hormone produced in the kidney when tissues of the body do not receive enough oxygen
mid-oceanic ridges	Elongated rises on the ocean floor where basalt periodically erupts, forming new oceanic crust; similar to continental rift zones.
community assembly theory	Theory suggesting that similar sites can develop different biological communities depending on order of arrival of different species.Â 
positive feedback	A physiological control mechanism in which a change in some variable triggers mechanisms that amplify the change.
proof-reading	An enzymatic mechanism that corrects errors in DNA synthesis.
patent	A property right granted by the government of the United States of America to an inventor .to exclude others from making, using, offering for sale, or selling the invention throughout the United States or importing the invention into the United States
divergence	Spreading apart
microfossil	n
carbanion	A negatively charged carbon atom.
gene signature	The genes that are consistently expressed in samples of a given tissue type.
exergonic reaction	A chemical reaction that proceeds with the liberation of energy.
dna ligase	Enzyme that joins the ends of two strands of DNA together with a covalent bond to make a continuous DNA strand.
species diversity	The number and relative abundance of species in a biological community.
plicate	Folded like a paper fan, as in the leaves of palms, cyclanthoids, and some orchids.
biotic	Relating to or produced by biological organisms.
intradomain	Within a single protein domain.
markovian model	Alternate name for a Markovian chain in which a sequence of random events where the current state solely depends on the previous state.
a site	The binding site for the aminoacyl-tRNA on the ribosome.
attenuator	A provisional transcription stop signal.
optical activity	The capacity of a substance to rotate the plane of plane-polarized light.
tandem ms	A mass spectroscopic method used for high-throughput analysis of protein sequence
dendrology	/den-DRAWL-ə-jee/ n
octet rule	the generalization that electrons in many molecules are arranged so that every atom (except hydrogen) shares in eight electrons
taeniate -us	with broad longitudinal markings.
posterior pereion	the meta-notum.
phaeism	applied to a duskiness of butterflies occurring in a limited region.
breeder reactor	a nuclear reactor that can produce more fissionable fuel (usually Pu-239) than it consumes (usually U-235)
phycobilin	Also phycobiliprotein or biliprotein
complex oligosaccharide	Chain of sugars attached to a glycoprotein that is generated by trimming of the original oligosaccharide attached in the endoplasmic reticulum and subsequent addition of further sugars
antigen	A molecule capable of eliciting the synthesis of a specific antibody in vertebrates.
tolerability	The potential of a drug to be endured
actin-binding protein	Protein that associates with either actin monomers or actin filaments in cells and modifies their properties
egb 761	A particular extract of Gingko biloba used in Europe to alleviate symptoms associated with several cognitive disorders.
tocopherols	Forms of vitamin E.
endergonic reaction	A nonspontaneous chemical reaction in which free energy is absorbed from the surroundings
hepatic	concerning the liver, as in HEPATOMA (liver cancer).
clinical trials	Studies in humans to establish the efficacy or safety of medical products.
pedigree	Pictorial representation of a family history outlining the inheritance of one or more traits or diseases.
pyrogeography	The geography of fire, at various scales.
hyperparasite	an organism that parasitizes either another parasite, or an organism closely related to itself.
ecological niche	The sum total of a species' use of the biotic and abiotic resources in its environment.
m	phaseSee cell cycle.
corpuscle	a small cell; usually applied to blood cells.
ineanus	hoary.
abiogenesis	spontaneous generation.
diapause	A programmed state of suspended development or suspended animation in the life history of an animal
camp	See cyclic adenosine monophosphate.
tick-borne disease	The diseases transmitted by ticks such as Rocky Mountain spotted fever, Q fever, and Lyme disease.
cataphracted	invested with a hard callous skin, or with scales closely united
mptp	A toxic molecule that causes damage to the nervous system, resulting in Parkinson's Disease.
burst exercise	Sudden, intense exercise.
superspecies	A group of semispecies.
in vitro	Term used by biochemists to describe a process taking place in an isolated cell-free extract
parataxonomy	n
ether	A molecule containing two carbons linked by an oxygen atom.
neutron	Uncharged subatomic particle that forms part of an atomic nucleus.
hydrophilic	having an affinity to water
non-specific	A type of response that is not specific to any particular body organ or location
isotonic	Two aqueous solutions are considered isotonic is they have the same concentration of solutes
vultus	face: that part of head below front and between the eyes.
oögenesis	the process of egg-formation.
helix-loop-helix	DNA-binding structural motif present in many gene regulatory proteins
infrared	heat radiation; the region of the electromagnetic spectrum with wavelengths longer than those of red visible light
quiescent	Silent or inactive.
energy level	Any of several different states of potential energy for electrons in an atom.
chytrid	Fungus with flagellated stage; possible evolutionary link between fungi and protists.
catabolite repression	Repression of a variety of unrelated enzymes when cells are grown in a medium containing glucose.
homopolymer	A polymer composed of only one type of monomeric building block.
amplification1	Increase of copy number of a plasmid by inhibiting the replication of chromosome while allowing plasmid replication to continue.
endotoxin	Microbial toxin, such as a cell-surface polysaccharide, that is not easily separated from the cell.
fossils	The geological remains, impressions, or traces of organisms that existed in the past.
phototaxis	Movement toward light.
myoclonus	Twitching or contraction of a muscle or group of muscles.
siphonophora	These creatures are a group of organisms related to jellyfish, coral and sea anemones
cyclin	Any of several related proteins whose concentrations rise and fall during the course of the eukaryotic cell cycle
disaccharides	A double sugar, consisting of two monosaccharides joined by dehydration synthesis.
gas vacuole	A subcellular organelle, found only in prokaryotes, which consists of clusters of hollow, cylindrical, gas-filled vesicles (gas vesicles).
salient	projecting; jutting out.
prae-subterminal	preceding the s.t
exhabitational	Organisms who are relatively independent physically, but interact directly.
fixed	A population in which all members are homozygous for the same allele at a given locus (antonyms: segregating, polymorphic).
ribosome	(ribosomal RNA)
hidden markov model	A probabilistic model used to align and analyze sequence datasets by generalization from a sequence profile.
particulate theory	Theory proposed by Mendel that genetic material is comprised of distinct units (genes) and these units maintains their integrity over generations.
ageing	The decline in organismal fitness that occurs with increasing age.
predictive gene tests	tests to identify gene abnormalities that may make a person susceptible to certain diseases or disorders.
ischemia	An inadequate flow of oxygen (hypoxia) due to insufficient blood supply.
cloned animals	Multiple genetically identical animals generated by reproductive cloning techniques.
glycerophospholipid	An amphipathic lipid with a glycerol backbone; fatty acids are ester-linked to Gl and C-2 of glycerol, and a polar alcohol is attached through a phosphodiester linkage to C-3.
remote	further removed than distant.
regression	In geology, withdrawal of sea from land, accompanying lowering of sea level; in statistics, a function that best predicts a dependent from an independent variable.
hemorrhage	A copious discharge of blood from the blood vessels.
adventitious roots	A root that grows from somewhere other than the primary root, for example, roots that arise from stems or leaves.
e. coli	A common bacterium found in the small intestine of vertehrates; the most well-studied organism.
polysaccharides	A polymer of up to over a thousand monosaccharides, formed by dehydration reactions.
radiotelemetry	The use of a radio transmitter placed in or on an animal to transmit data on physiological or behavioral variables.
rhizobacteria	Bacteria that aggressively colonize roots.
base	a substance that reduces the hydrogen ion concentration of a solution
chemoreceptor	A receptor that transmits information about the total solute concentration in a solution or about individual kinds of molecules.
family systems theory	A recent theory that attributes the weakening of a couple and/or family relationship to the mounting tension during the waiting period before receiving predictive testing results.
releasing factors	Hypothalamic hormones that stimulate release of other hormones by the pituitary gland.
host	Organism which serves as the habitat for a parasite, or possibly for a symbiont
isogenic	Genotypically identical.
homogeneous	of the same kind or nature: similar in texture or parts.
reduction potential	The voltage change when an atom or molecule gains an electron.
adipose	fat or fatty: see fat-body.
double bond	covalent bond consisting of two pairs of shared electrons
primary immune response	The initial immune response to an antigen, which appears after a lag of several days.
dna	Polynucleotide formed from covalently linked deoxyribonucleotide units
hybrid zone	A region where two related populations that diverged after becoming geographically isolated make secondary contact and interbreed where their geographical ranges overlap.
eicosanoids	Any product derived from arachidonic acid
rapacious	predatory; capturing and eating prey.
botryoidal	clustered like a bunch of grapes.
aerotolerant anaerobes	Microbes that grow under both aerobic and anaerobic conditions, but do not shift from one mode of metabolism to another as conditions change
capsule	1
solute	substance that dissolves in a solvent
arachidonic acid	An omega-6 fatty acid
stabilizing selection	Selection against phenotypes that deviate in either direction from an optimal value of a character.
fermentation	Energy-yielding anaerobic breakdown of a nutrient molecule, such as glucose, without net oxidation; yields lactate, ethanol, or some other simple product.
variolate -ose	with large, rounded impressions like pock-marks.
active transport	The movement of a substance across a biological membrane against its concentration or electrochemical gradient with the help of energy input and specific transport proteins.
biological accumulation	the acccumulation of toxic substances, e.g., DDT, in higher levels of the food web by consumption of organisms of the same or lower levels which have acquired the substance but which have not been affected by it.
occult -us	hidden; concealed from superficial view.
cox	Abbreviation for cyclooxygenase.
calcium pump	Transport protein in the membrane of the sarcoplasmic reticulum of muscle cells (and elsewhere) that pumps Ca2+ out of the cytoplasm into the sarcoplasmic reticulum using the energy of ATP hydrolysis.
induced- fit model	Explanation of how come enzymes work; their shape changes and fits a bound substrate more closely, and the tension destabilizes substrate bonds so that they can break.
facultative anaerobe	An organism which is normally aerobic but can also grow without oxygen.
pollen tube guidance	In order to deliver immotile sperm cells to the female gametophyte in flowering plants, the pollen tube carrying the sperm cells grows towards the unfertilized female gametophyte
mass spectrometry	A method for identifying molecules based on the detection of the mass-to-charge ratio of ions generated from the molecule by vaporization and electron bombardment
meiotic drive	See Segregation distortion.
necrosis	Damage of living tissues due to infection or injury.
robisomal rna	Types of RNA found in the ribosome; some participate actively in the process of protein synthesis.
mushroom	a fleshy basidioma, usually stalked and with a cap (pileus) beneath which gills or fleshy tubes are covered with or lined with the hymenium; edible or poisonous; see AGARIC, BOLETE.
somatotheca	that part of pupa covering abdominal rings:= gasterotheca.
polysaccharide	polymer made up of thousands of glucose units
polymer	large molecule built from monomers consisting of a long chain or chains of atoms covalently bonded together
old earth creationism	The belief that the earth and universe are ancient, but that God played an active role in their history
cyclic-nucleotide-gated channel	(CNGC)
recumbent	lying down; reclining.
mean square	The sums of squares divided by the degrees of freedom (n
phenotype	The physical characteristics displayed by an organism; results from interaction between the genotype and the environment.
biometrics	The statistical study of biological events.
cbo	Community-Based Organization
cytochrome oxidase complex	Third of the three electron-driven proton pumps in the respiratory chain
microbiology	The study of microbioorganisms.
affinity maturation	Progressive increase in the affinity of antibodies for the immunizing antigen with the passage of time after immunization.
co-repressor	A small molecule that binds to an aporepressor protein, producing a conformational change that causes it to function as a transcriptional repressor.
low-density lipoprotein	Large complex composed of a single protein molecule and many esterified cholesterol molecules, together with other lipids
isoelectric ph	The pH at which a solute has no net electric charge and thus does not move in an electric field.
catastrophism	The hypothesis by Georges Cuvier that each boundary between strata corresponded in time to a catastrophe, such as a flood or drought, that had destroyed many of the species living there at that time.
adh	Abbreviation of antidiuretic hormone.
peptidoglycan	A polymer that contains equal amounts of peptide and polysaccharide.
deletion map	/də-LEE-shən, dee-/ A description of a chromosome that uses deletions as markers for specific areas of that chromosome.
oxidation half-reaction	type of chemical equation that shows the reactant that loses electrons
papillae	Small colonies that appear within or at the edge of a colony
ribosomal protein	Any protein component of a ribosomal subunit
animal pole	In yolky eggs, that end free of yolk that cleaves more rapidly than the vegetal pole.
cadherin	A member of a family of proteins that mediates Ca2+-dependent cell–cell adhesion in animal tissues.
atomic weight	Mass of an atom relative to the mass of a hydrogen atom
semipermeable	The characteristic of allowing only some molecules, usually smaller or uncharged ones, to pass through.
secondary compound	A chemical compound synthesized through the diversion of products of major metabolic pathways for use in defense by prey species.
recombinant dna	DNA molecule that forms from the combination of portions of two different DNA molecules.
similarity	Sequence identity between two nucleotide sequences
polymer	a compound made by linking many identical smaller molecules (monomers).
calcite	A common crystalline form of natural calcium carbonate, CaCO3, that is the basic constituent of limestone, marble, and chalk
androgen	A masculinizing hormone such as testosterone.
cloning	Formation of exact genetic replicas.
cleidocostal	kligh-doh-KOST-uhl/ Pertaining to both clavicle and rib.
molecular pathways	A system where one molecule affects another, either by activating it or deactivating it
clypeate	shield-like in form.
nitrification	process of converting ammonia, typically in soil, to nitrate ions
dimer	/DIE-mer/ n
melliferous	honey-producing, or producers of honey.
fermentation	chemical changes in organic substrates caused by enzymes of living microorganisms.
acetyl group	A small molecule made of two carbon, three hydrogen, and one oxygen atoms
agent study	In cancer prevention, a clinical trial that studies whether taking certain medicines, vitamins, minerals, or food supplements can prevent cancer
antisocial	Describes behavior that ignores the rights of others and the practices and laws of society.
gamete	Term for either a sperm or egg
radiologist	A doctor who specializes in creating and interpreting pictures of areas inside the body
abx-egf	A human monoclonal antibody that is being used to treat colorectal cancer that has spread to other parts of the body
arousal	The state of being alert and ready to respond, or waking from sleep.
ae-941	A substance made from shark cartilage that is being studied for its ability to prevent the growth of new blood vessels that tumors need to grow
aromatic	Having an odor, which often is pleasant or spicy.
ancestim	A substance that causes blood stem cells (cells from which other types of cells develop) to change into different types of blood cells and increases the number and actions of these cells in the blood
azq	An anticancer drug that is able to cross the blood-brain barrier and kill cancer cells in the central nervous system
alcar	A form of the natural substance carnitine that is being studied as a way to prevent tissue damage caused by chemotherapy
anll	An aggressive (fast-growing) disease in which too many myeloblasts (immature white blood cells that are not lymphoblasts) are found in the bone marrow and blood
asc-us	Abnormal cells from the outer walls of the cervix (the lower, narrow end of the uterus)
autoimmune disease	A condition in which the body recognizes its own tissues as foreign and directs an immune response against them.
adenosis	A disease or abnormal change in a gland
aspergillosis	An infectious fungal disease that occurs most often in the skin, ears, nasal sinuses, and lungs of people with suppressed immune systems.
spinal cancer	Cancer that begins in the spinal column (backbone) or spinal cord
anesthesia	A loss of feeling or awareness caused by drugs or other substances
anesthesiologist	A doctor who specializes in giving drugs or other agents to prevent or relieve pain during surgery or other procedures being done in the hospital.
aerobic respiration	A chemical process in which oxygen is used to make energy from carbohydrates (sugars)
anterior mediastinotomy	A procedure in which a tube is inserted into the chest to view the tissues and organs in the area between the lungs and between the breastbone and heart
ag337	A substance that is being studied in the treatment of liver cancer
armd	A condition in which there is a slow breakdown of cells in the center of the retina (the light-sensitive layers of nerve tissue at the back of the eye)
antisense dna	Small pieces of DNA that can bind to specific molecules of RNA and block the cell's ability to use the RNA to make a protein or work in other ways
actos	A drug that is used to treat type 2 diabetes and is being studied in the prevention of head and neck cancer
malignant	Cancerous
actinex	A drug put on the skin to treat growths caused by sun exposure
allelic heterogeneity	Different mutations in the same gene that cause different phenotypic manifestations or severity of disease.
anti-cd22 immunotoxin	A monoclonal antibody linked to a toxic substance
sperm motility	The ability of sperm to swim
agnogenic myeloid metaplasia	A progressive, chronic disease in which the bone marrow is replaced by fibrous tissue and blood is made in organs such as the liver and the spleen, instead of in the bone marrow
avodart	A drug used to treat symptoms of an enlarged prostate gland
adrenal medulla	The inner part of the adrenal gland (a small organ on top of each kidney)
aldara	A drug used to treat early basal cell skin cancer and certain other skin conditions
amitriptyline hydrochloride	A drug that is used to treat depression and may be given to treat anxiety, sleep disorders, and pain
aqueous	Having to do with water.
aminoglycoside antibiotic	A substance that works against many types of bacteria and includes streptomycin, gentamicin, and neomycin
agglutinin	A substance that makes particles (such as bacteria or cells) stick together to form a clump or a mass.
analgesic	A drug that reduces pain
amelanotic melanoma	A type of skin cancer in which the cells do not make the pigment melanin
follow-up	Monitoring a person's health over time after treatment
afp	A protein normally produced by a fetus
anticonvulsant	A drug or other substance used to prevent or stop seizures or convulsions
lymphedema	Refers to swelling that generally occurs in one of your arms or legs
accelerated radiation therapy	Radiation treatment in which the total dose of radiation is given over a shorter period of time (fewer days) compared to standard radiation therapy.
acupuncturist	A person trained in acupuncture (therapy that uses thin needles inserted through the skin at specific points on the body to control pain and other symptoms)
acute myelogenous leukemia	An aggressive (fast-growing) disease in which too many myeloblasts (immature white blood cells that are not lymphoblasts) are found in the bone marrow and blood
altretamine	An anticancer drug that belongs to the family of drugs called alkylating agents.
allogenic	Taken from different individuals of the same species
acetaminophen	A drug that reduces pain and fever (but not inflammation)
ascus	Abnormal cells from the outer walls of the cervix (the lower, narrow end of the uterus)
atypia	State of being not typical or normal
asbestos	A group of minerals that take the form of tiny fibers
aromatherapy	A type of complementary and alternative medicine that uses plant oils that give off strong pleasant aromas (smells) to promote relaxation, a sense of well-being, and healing.
antifungal	A drug that treats infections caused by fungi.
clinician	A health professional who takes care of patients
aspirin	A drug that reduces pain, fever, inflammation, and blood clotting
adenine	A chemical compound that is used to make one of the building blocks of DNA and RNA
apc	A type of immune cell that boosts immune responses by showing antigens on its surface to other cells of the immune system
antibody	A protein made by plasma cells (a type of white blood cell) in response to an antigen (a substance that causes the body to make a specific immune response)
argon beam coagulator ablation	A procedure that destroys tissue with an electrical current passed through a stream of argon gas to the tissue
affinity reagent	In chemistry and biology, a compound that binds specific substances, such as proteins or nucleic acids
assisted reproductive technology	A term used to describe collectively a number of noncoital methods of conception that are used to treat infertility with donor or nondonor eggs and sperm including in vitro fertilization (IVF), gamete intrafallopian transfer (GIFT), and zygote intrafallopian transfer (ZIFT)
alvocidib	A substance being studied in the treatment of several types of cancer
antineoplastic antibiotic	A type of anticancer drug that blocks cell growth by interfering with DNA, the genetic material in cells
antiandrogen therapy	A substance that prevents cells from making or using androgens (hormones that play a role in the formation of male sex characteristics)
autosomal recessive	Autosomal recessive inheritance refers to genetic conditions that occur only when mutations are present in both copies of a given gene (i.e., the person is homozygous for a mutation, or carries two different mutations of the same gene, a state referred to as compound heterozygosity).
angioplasty	A procedure to enlarge the opening in a blood vessel that has become narrowed or blocked by plaque (a buildup of fat and cholesterol on the inner wall of the blood vessel)
x-ray	A type of high-energy radiation
aerobic metabolism	A chemical process in which oxygen is used to make energy from carbohydrates (sugars)
anagrelide	A drug that is used to decrease the number of platelets in the blood in order to prevent blood clotting.
alh	A benign (not cancer) condition in which there are more cells than normal in the breast lobules and the cells look abnormal under a microscope
antisense agent	Small pieces of DNA or RNA that can bind to specific molecules of RNA
arthralgia	Joint pain.
agus	A term that has been used to describe abnormal cells that come from glands in the walls of the cervix (the lower, narrow end of the uterus)
agonist	A drug that triggers an action from a cell or another drug.
avage	A drug used on the skin to treat several skin conditions
abnormal	Not normal
dna	The molecules inside cells that carry genetic information and pass it from one generation to the next
aldesleukin	A drug used to treat some types of cancer
autophagy	A normal process in which a cell destroys proteins and other substances in its cytoplasm (the fluid inside the cell membrane but outside the nucleus), which may lead to cell death
alopecia	The lack or loss of hair from areas of the body where hair is usually found
acetyl-l-carnitine	A form of the natural substance carnitine that is being studied as a way to prevent tissue damage caused by chemotherapy
antiepileptic	A drug or other substance used to prevent or stop seizures or convulsions
alkalinization	A chemical that can dissolve in water, combine with acids to form salts, and make acids less acidic
addiction	Uncontrollable craving, seeking, and use of a substance such as a drug or alcohol.
aha	One of a group of substances that are found in several types of fruit and in milk
arms	A soft tissue tumor that is most common in older children and teenagers
aerobic	In biochemistry, reactions that need oxygen to happen or happen when oxygen is present.
alanine transferase	An enzyme found in the liver and other tissues
artery	A blood vessel that carries blood from the heart to tissues and organs in the body.
antiangiogenic	Having to do with reducing the growth of new blood vessels.
acute pain	Pain that comes on quickly, can be severe, but lasts a relatively short time.
anemia	A condition in which the number of red blood cells is below normal.
adrenal cancer	Cancer that forms in the tissues of the adrenal glands (two glands located just above the kidneys)
auricular	Having to do with the ear.
aldehyde	A type of chemical substance made from alcohol
acute myeloblastic leukemia	An aggressive (fast-growing) disease in which too many myeloblasts (immature white blood cells that are not lymphoblasts) are found in the bone marrow and blood
antianxiety agent	A drug used to treat symptoms of anxiety, such as feelings of fear, dread, uneasiness, and muscle tightness, that may occur as a reaction to stress
at/rt	An aggressive cancer of the central nervous system, kidney, or liver that occurs in very young children
androgen receptor positive	Describes cells that have a protein that binds to androgens (male hormones)
antibiotic	A drug used to treat infections caused by bacteria and other microorganisms.
antidepressant	A drug used to treat depression.
achlorhydria	A lack of hydrochloric acid in the digestive juices in the stomach
androgen suppression	Treatment to suppress or block the production or action of male hormones
tumor	An abnormal mass of tissue that results when cells divide more than they should or do not die when they should
antiparasitic	A drug used to treat infections caused by bacteria and parasites
accolate	A drug used to prevent and treat symptoms of asthma
anxiolytic	A drug used to treat symptoms of anxiety, such as feelings of fear, dread, uneasiness, and muscle tightness, that may occur as a reaction to stress
att/rht	An aggressive cancer of the central nervous system, kidney, or liver that occurs in very young children
abo blood group system	A system used to group human blood into different types, based on the presence or absence of certain markers on the surface of red blood cells
anabolic steroid	A type of steroid that is used in medicine to repair body tissues and to increase appetite and the growth of muscles
atypical lobular hyperplasia	A benign (not cancer) condition in which there are more cells than normal in the breast lobules and the cells look abnormal under a microscope
anus	The opening of the rectum to the outside of the body.
anatomic	Having to do with anatomy (the study of the structure of a plant or animal).
aromatherapy infusion	The process of heating (without boiling) a mixture of water and an essential oil (scented liquid taken from a plant) to release a pleasant aroma
alveoli	Tiny air sacs at the end of the bronchioles in the lungs.
accelerated-fraction radiation therapy	Radiation treatment in which the total dose of radiation is divided into small doses and the treatments are given more than once a day
antiprogestin	A substance that prevents cells from making or using progesterone (a hormone that plays a role in the menstrual cycle and pregnancy)
anterior pelvic exenteration	Surgery to remove the urethra, lower part of the ureters, uterus, cervix, vagina, and bladder.
aloxi	A drug used to treat nausea and vomiting caused by cancer treatment
acidity	Refers to the amount of acid in a substance
antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity	A type of immune reaction in which a target cell or microbe is coated with antibodies and killed by certain types of white blood cells
antagonist	In medicine, a substance that stops the action or effect of another substance
allergic response	A hypersensitive immune reaction to a substance that normally is harmless or would not cause an immune response in most people
anorexia nervosa	An abnormal loss of the appetite for food
attenuated	Weakened or thinned
antifolate	A substance that blocks the activity of folic acid
trigeminal neuralgia	A nerve disorder that causes a stabbing or electric-shock-like pain in parts of the face
adderall	A combination of drugs used as a treatment for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and narcolepsy (a sleep disorder)
avn944	A substance being studied in the treatment of cancer
amanita phalloides	A type of poisonous mushroom that has harmful effects on the kidneys and liver
definitive treatment	The treatment plan for a disease or disorder that has been chosen as the best one for a patient after all other choices have been considered
adverse effect	An unexpected medical problem that happens during treatment with a drug or other therapy
alpha-blocker	A substance that relaxes muscle tissue in blood vessels and in the prostate gland, which improves the flow of urine and blood
artificial pacemaker	An electronic device that is implanted in the body to monitor heart rate and rhythm
atelectasis	Failure of the lung to expand (inflate) completely
arsenic	A poisonous chemical used to kill weeds and pests
anatomist	A person who specializes in anatomy (the study of the structures of animals or plants).
ampulla	A sac-like enlargement of a canal or duct.
a33	A type of monoclonal antibody used in cancer detection or therapy
arctiin	A substance found in certain plants, including burdock
amphotericin b	A drug used in the treatment of infections caused by fungi
apo-2l	A cell protein that can attach to certain molecules in some cancer cells and may kill the cells
ar+	Describes cells that have a protein that binds to androgens (male hormones)
abdomen	The area of the body that contains the pancreas, stomach, intestines, liver, gallbladder, and other organs.
acapha	A mixture of six herbs that has been used in China to prevent and treat diseases such as lung and esophageal cancers
antidiarrheal	A substance used to treat diarrhea (frequent and watery bowel movements).
anesthetic	A drug or other substance that causes a loss of feeling or awareness
adjuvant therapy	Treatment given after the primary treatment to increase the chances of a cure
androgen ablation	A type of hormone that promotes the development and maintenance of male sex characteristics.
adverse event	An unexpected medical problem that happens during treatment with a drug or other therapy
antiretroviral therapy	Treatment with drugs that inhibit the ability of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) or other types of retroviruses to multiply in the body.
3-dimensional	A graphic display of depth, width, and height
acromegaly	A condition in which the pituitary gland makes too much growth hormone after normal growth of the skeleton is finished
adrenocortical	Having to do with or made by the outer layer of the adrenal gland, which produces steroid hormones
amygdalin	A substance found in the pits of many fruits such as apricots and papayas, and in other foods
abvd	An abbreviation for a chemotherapy combination used to treat Hodgkin lymphoma
allograft	The transplant of an organ, tissue, or cells from one individual to another individual of the same species who is not an identical twin.
adenoma	A noncancerous tumor that starts in gland-like cells of the epithelial tissue (thin layer of tissue that covers organs, glands, and other structures within the body).
alteration	A change resulting in something that is different from the original.
angelica root	The root of any of a group of herbs called Angelica
attributable risk	Proportion of a disease in exposed individuals that can be attributed to an exposure
anaphylactic shock	A severe and sometimes life-threatening immune system reaction to an antigen that a person has been previously exposed to
assistive device	A tool that helps a person with a disability to do a certain task
alkaloid	A member of a large group of chemicals that are made by plants and have nitrogen in them
anti-inflammatory	Having to do with reducing inflammation.
acetic acid	An acid found in vinegar
electron beam	A stream of electrons (small negatively charged particles found in atoms) that can be used for radiation therapy
adjustment disorder	A condition in which a person responds to a stressful event (such as an illness, job loss, or divorce) with extreme emotions and actions that cause problems at work and home.
aberrant crypt foci	Clusters of abnormal tube-like glands in the lining of the colon and rectum
adenoid cystic carcinoma	A rare type of cancer that usually begins in the salivary glands.
alanine aminopeptidase	An enzyme that is used as a biomarker to detect damage to the kidneys, and that may be used to help diagnose certain kidney disorders
avoidance	The act of staying away from people, places, and thoughts that may cause anxiety, pain, or unpleasant feelings
autologous stem cell transplantation	A procedure in which blood-forming stem cells (cells from which all blood cells develop) are removed, stored, and later given back to the same person.
amitriptyline	A drug that is used to treat depression and may be given to treat anxiety, sleep disorders, and pain
aldrich syndrome	An inherited immune disorder that occurs in young boys
high-dose radiation	Also called HDR
adjunct agent	In cancer therapy, a drug or substance used in addition to the primary therapy.
avandia	A drug that helps control the amount of glucose (sugar) in the blood and is being studied in the prevention and treatment of some types of cancer
appendix	A small, fingerlike pouch that sticks out from the cecum (the first part of the large intestine near the end of the small intestine).
asymptomatic	Having no signs or symptoms of disease.
ashkenazi jews	One of two major ancestral groups of Jewish individuals, comprised of those whose ancestors lived in Eastern Europe (Germany, Poland, Russia)
animal-assisted therapy	A type of therapy that uses dogs or other pets to improve the physical and mental health of patients with certain acute or chronic diseases
assay	A laboratory test to find and measure the amount of a specific substance.
acid	A chemical that gives off hydrogen ions in water and forms salts by combining with certain metals
anxiolytic agent	A drug used to treat symptoms of anxiety, such as feelings of fear, dread, uneasiness, and muscle tightness, that may occur as a reaction to stress
agitation	A condition in which a person is unable to relax and be still
antibacterial	A substance that kills bacteria or stops them from growing and causing disease.
alkalinity	Refers to the amount of alkali
apheresis	A procedure in which blood is collected, part of the blood such as platelets or white blood cells is taken out, and the rest of the blood is returned to the donor
asbestosis	A lung disease caused by breathing in particles of asbestos (a group of minerals that take the form of tiny fibers)
anastrozole	An anticancer drug that is used to decrease estrogen production and suppress the growth of tumors that need estrogen to grow
antimicrobial	A substance that kills microorganisms such as bacteria or mold, or stops them from growing and causing disease.
amsacrine	An anticancer drug that belongs to the family of drugs called topoisomerase inhibitors.
actinic keratosis	A thick, scaly patch of skin that may become cancer
annamycin	A substance that is being studied in the treatment of cancer
affected	Individuals in a pedigree who exhibit the specific phenotype under study.
amifostine	A drug used as a chemoprotective drug to control some of the side effects of chemotherapy and radiation therapy.
asymmetry	Lack or absence of balanced proportions between parts of a thing.
aspiration	Removal of fluid or tissue through a needle
alzheimer disease	A brain disorder that usually starts in late middle age or old age and gets worse over time
albumin	A type of protein found in blood, egg white, milk, and other substances.
avelox	A drug used to treat bacterial infections
ascites	Abnormal buildup of fluid in the abdomen that may cause swelling
aminocamptothecin	An anticancer drug that belongs to the family of drugs called topoisomerase inhibitors.
acute bacterial prostatitis	Inflammation of the prostate gland that begins suddenly and gets worse quickly
antiemetic	A drug that prevents or reduces nausea and vomiting.
antiviral	A drug used to treat infections caused by viruses.
augmentin	A drug used to treat bacterial infections
radiation	Energy released in the form of particle or electromagnetic waves
anticancer antibiotic	A type of anticancer drug that blocks cell growth by interfering with DNA, the genetic material in cells
amylase	An enzyme that helps the body digest starches.
atn-161	A substance being studied in the treatment of some types of cancer
aurotherapy	A procedure that uses gold salts (a salt form of the metal element gold) to treat diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis
antiestrogen	A substance that keeps cells from making or using estrogen (a hormone that plays a role in female sex characteristics, the menstrual cycle, and pregnancy)
antisense rna	Small pieces of RNA that can bind to specific molecules of RNA and block the cell's ability to use the RNA to make a protein or work in other ways
alcohol dependence	A chemical substance found in beer, wine, and liquor
acetylation	A chemical reaction in which a small molecule called an acetyl group is added to other molecules
absorption	The process of taking nutrients from the digestive system into the blood so they can be used in the body.
ag014699	A substance being studied in the treatment of breast cancers caused by mutations (changes) in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes
acidification	The process of making or becoming an acid
alzheimer dementia	A brain disorder that usually starts in late middle age or old age and gets worse over time
animal study	A laboratory experiment using animals to study the development and progression of diseases
atypical ductal breast hyperplasia	A benign (not cancer) condition in which there are more cells than normal in the lining of breast ducts and the cells look abnormal under a microscope
autologous bone marrow transplantation	A procedure in which bone marrow is removed from a person, stored, and then given back to the person after intensive treatment.
atorvastatin calcium	A drug used to lower the amount of cholesterol in the blood and to prevent stroke, heart attack, and angina (chest pain)
amd 3100	A condition in which there is a slow breakdown of cells in the center of the retina (the light-sensitive layers of nerve tissue at the back of the eye)
aneuploidy	The occurrence of one or more extra or missing chromosomes leading to an unbalanced chromosome complement, or any chromosome number that is not an exact multiple of the haploid number (which is 46).
acupressure	The application of pressure or localized massage to specific sites on the body to control symptoms such as pain or nausea
anhydrovinblastine	An anticancer drug that belongs to the family of drugs called mitotic inhibitors.
agc	A term used to describe abnormal cells that come from inside the cervix or from the lining of the uterus
antihormone therapy	Treatment with drugs, surgery, or radiation in order to block the production or action of a hormone
antimitotic agent	A type of drug that blocks cell growth by stopping mitosis (cell division)
adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma	An aggressive (fast-growing) type of T-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma caused by the human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1)
atrasentan	A nutrient that that body needs in small amounts to function and stay healthy
abegrin	A substance being studied in the treatment of some types of cancer and other conditions
anticachexia	Describes a drug or effect that works against cachexia (loss of body weight and muscle mass).
appendectomy	Surgery to remove the appendix (small finger-shaped pouch at the end of the first part of the large intestine).
aap	An enzyme that is used as a biomarker to detect damage to the kidneys, and that may be used to help diagnose certain kidney disorders
acf	Clusters of abnormal tube-like glands in the lining of the colon and rectum
acne	A disorder of the skin in which oil glands and hair glands become inflamed.
ap23573	A substance being studied in the treatment of soft tissue and bone cancers
atp	A substance present in all living cells that provides energy for many metabolic processes and is involved in making RNA
anatomy	The study of the structure of a plant or animal.
aminoglutethimide	An anticancer drug that belongs to the family of drugs called nonsteroidal aromatase inhibitors
at9283	A substance being studied in the treatment of some types of cancer
aminopterin	An anticancer drug that belongs to the family of drugs called antimetabolites.
allegra	A drug used to treat certain allergy symptoms