retainer	Act of a client in hiring an attorney
contract	An agreement between two or more persons which creates an obligation to do or not to do a particular thing
nunc pro tunc	"Now for then." Action applied to acts which should have been completed at an earlier date than actually were, with the earlier date listed as the completion date.
compensatory damages	Money awarded to reimburse actual costs, such as medical bills and lost wages
immaterial	Not essential or necessary, not important or pertinent; not decisive; of no substantial consequence; without weight.
chapter 7 bankruptcy	A type of bankruptcy in which a person's assets are liquidated (collected and sold) and the proceeds are distributed to the creditors.
state court	Within the U.S
prime facie	On the face of it - factually
inquest	A legal inquiry, before a court of law and other officers legally empowered to hold inquiries, usually to determine the cause and circumstances of a death.
mitigation	Circumstances suggesting that a lesser sentence is appropriate.
exonerate	To clear from blame or to relieve from responsibility.
trial courts	Superior and municipal courts.
breach of contract	Legally inexcusable failure to perform contractual obligation.
lawyer	A person qualified to represent clients in a court of law and to advise them on legal matters
incarcerate	To confine to a jail.
good faith	Honest belief; the absence of malice and design to defraud.
debtor	A person who owes money, goods or services to another.
penal code	The body of law defining most criminal offenses in California
limited partnership	An unincorporated association or fir in in which partners are relieved of liability beyond the amount of the capital contributed by them.
equity	Generally, justice or fairness; body of principles that determine what is just or fair
person	An individual or an organization
pedophile	A person who’s sexual perversion in which child are preferred as sexual partner
habitual offender	Also known as a "recidivist
strict liability	A concept applied by courts in product liability cases in which a seller is liable for any and all defective or hazardous products that unduly threaten a consumer's personal safety.
preclude	To prevent or stop.
amend	To change.
antipsychotic	Medications that are usually used to treat psychosis
ab inito	From The beginning
proposition 36	A law passed in November 2000 requiring the courts to provide drug treatment instead of incarceration to most individuals convicted of non-violent drug offenses
deuce	Colloquial term for driving under the influence of an intoxicating drug or liquor.
tracking number	The assigned 12-digit number that identifies the defendant and incident throughout criminal proceedings; the number identifies the year (first 2 digits), the origin of the charging document (next 4 digits), and the place of the charge(s) within the sequence of changes issued that year (last 6 digits).
- u - undertaking	A promise or security in any form; may be one sided
bigamy	Any married person, who while still married, marries or cohabits in this state with another.
liability	Any legal responsibility, duty or obligation.
proximate cause	An event (including a failure to act) that produces, without any intervening cause, in the injury and without which the injury would not have occurred.
seal	The symbol of authenticity.
mental health treatment	A special condition the court imposes to require an individual to undergo evaluation and treatment for a mental disorder
stay	Court order halting a judicial proceeding or the action of halting such proceeding.
reinstated bail	Bail previously forfeited, exonerated, or reduced that is now reestablished in its original amount.
community property	Property acquired by a couple during their marriage
custodian	Under the Uniform Transfers to Minors Act, the person appointed to manage and dispense funds for a child without constricting court supervision and accounting requirements.
adjudication	Judgment rendered by the court after a determination of the issues.
vacated	To make void or set aside.
libel	False and malicious written, printed, or published material that is defamatory and injures the reputation of an individual
vacate	To set aside
contract	An agreement between two or more persons that creates, changes, or eliminates a legal relationship.
sentencing report	See pre-sentencing report.
penalty	Punishment for violating a law.
community service	A special condition the court imposes that requires an individual to work - without pay - for a civic or nonprofit organization.
supervised release	 Term of supervision served after a person is released from prison
enjoin	To require a person, via an injunction, to perform or to abstain from performing some specific act.
adoption	The judicial act creating the legal parental relationship when no genetic linkage exists.
statute	A law adopted by the legislature.
reverse	 The act of a court setting aside the decision of a lower court
malfeasance	Evil doing; ill conduct; the commission of some act that is positively prohibited by law.
trust fund	Money, stocks, bonds or securities held by or under the control of someone for the use and benefit of another
neurobiology	The specific area of biology that studies the nervous system (which includes the nerves, spinal cord and brain).
citation	Reference to source of legal authority
confession	A statement by an individual, either oral or written, admitting that he or she committed a certain offense
exercise	To utilize or make use of
extortion	Forcing a person to give up property in a thin through the use of violence, fear or under pretense of authority.
escheat	The process by which a deceased person's property goes to the state if no heir can be found.
in loco parentis	In place of the parent
substance abuse treatment	 A special condition the court imposes that requires an individual to undergo testing and treatment for abuse of illegal drugs, prescription drugs, or alcohol
urine test	Chemical analysis of a urine specimen to determine content of alcohol or some other drug.
bar	1
c.r.j.d.	Abbreviation for "Colorado Rules of Judicial Discipline".
eminent domain	Power of the government to take private property for public use, after paying the owner reasonable compensation
parole	Release of a convicted offender from imprisonment, but not from legal custody and supervision by the corrections system
breach of contract	The failure to do what one promised to do under a contract
green card	An immigrant visa
contra bonos mores	Contrary to good morals
minor	An individual under the age of 18 (eighteen) years.
wage execution	The act of taking a person's wages to satisfy a judgment
lessor	A landlord; one who grants the lease.
adversary process	the method courts use to resolve disputes
non constat	It is not certain
tort	An injury or damage to person/or property for which the person who caused the injury is legally responsible. 
attorney-in-fact	Private person, not necessarily an attorney, authorized by another to act in his place and stead, either for a particular purpose or for transaction of business in general that is not of legal character
occupational therapist	The person who will work with you to develop your skills and confidence in everyday life - including work, social and leisure activities and personal care.
amended vs. amendment	In general civil, an amended document replaces the prior document
land installment contract	An agreement in which the buyer agrees to buy a dwelling that he will occupy or a lot which will be used for residential purposes, the purchase price will be paid in five or more installments in addition to the down payment, and the seller retains title to the property as security for the buyer's obligation.
sunshine laws	Laws forbidding or restricting closed meetings of government bodies and providing for public access to records.
mens rea	The "guilty mind" necessary to establish criminal responsibility.
emergency department	The part of a hospital for anyone who has a serious injury or who needs emergency treatment
publici juris	Of public right
rescind	To annul, cancel, terminate a contract, including a lease, and to restore the parties to the position they would occupy if no contract had been made.
acknowledgment	The act of declaring, testifying, or certifying that something is genuine
actus reus	A guilty deed or act
administrator	One who administers estate of person who dies without a will
lien	A claim by a party on the property of another for payment of a debt or obligation
reset	To calendar or set again.
concurrent sentences	Sentences served at the same time: e.g., concurrent sentences of 10 years and 5 years equal a total of 10 years served
divorce	Includes dissolution of marriage, and "annulment" includes a declaration of invalidity, as such terms are used in the "Uniform Dissolution of Marriage Act in article 10 of title 14 C.R.S.
ad infinitum	For ever, without limit, To infinity
protective proceedings	A proceeding to determine that a person cannot effectively manage or apply his estate to necessary ends, either because he lacks the ability or is otherwise inconvenienced, or because he is a minor, and to secure administration of his estate by a conservator or other appropriate relief.
case file	A complete collection of every document filed in court in a case.
house arrest	An alternative to incarceration in county jail that can be imposed either as a condition of pretrial release or as a condition of probation
real property	Land, buildings, and other improvements affixed to the land.
remedy	Legal or judicial means by which a right or privilege is enforced or the violation of a right or privilege is prevented, redressed, or compensated.
securities fraud	A stockbroker, financial advisor, corporation, or investor may commit securities fraud by:
chapter 9	The chapter of the Bankruptcy Code providing for reorganization of municipalities (which includes cities and towns, as well as villages, counties, taxing districts, municipal utilities, and school districts).
collateral	Property that is promised as security for the satisfaction of a debt.
dyc	Abbreviation for "Department of Youth Corrections"
revenue	Income.
bequeath	To give someone a gift through a will.
confession	A statement by a person, either oral or written, admitting that he or she committed a certain offense
usury	Charging a higher interest rate or higher fees than the law allows.
integrated bar	State bar association to which a lawyer must belong in order to practice in that state.
incarcerate	To confine in jail.
writ of mandamus	 A type of writ; a court order instructing an inferior court, a corporation or a person to perform some duty specified in the order.  Example: a writ of mandamus by an appeals court compelling a lower court to hear a motion.
genetics	All cells contain substances (including DNA, chromosomes, and genes) that shape a person's identity and can be passed on to other cells
personal property	Tangible physical property (such as cars, clothing, furniture and jewelry) and intangible personal property
bench warrant	A court order which directs that an accused person who has been released before trial and fails to return when ordered to do so be brought to court.
inter alia	Amongst other things
enjoin	To order a person to perform, or to abstain and desist from performing a specified act or course of conduct.
robbery	Felonious taking of another's property in that person's presence by force or fear
nuisance	Offensive, annoying, unpleasant or obnoxious thing or practice that interferes with use or enjoyment of a property.
commutation	Change of punishment from a greater to a lesser degree or ending a sentence that has been partially served.
autism spectrum disorder	Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a behaviourally defined syndrome characterised by communication impairments, social interaction problems and unusual interest patterns and/or stereotyped behaviour
self harm	Self harm is when somebody damages or injures their body on purpose
controlled dangerous substance	any substance whose possession and use have been regulated by the legislature.
juvenile	Any person under the age of 18
term	Definition
agent	A person who has received the power to act on behalf of another, bind that other person as if he or she were themselves making the decisions.
care plan	A plan for your care over the next few weeks or months
real property	Land, anything growing on the land and anything erected on or attached to the land
plea	Five pleas possible in criminal cases: (1) not guilty; (2) not guilty by reason of insanity; (3) not guilty because of impaired mental condition; (4) no contest; and (5) guilty.
personality disorder	Personality disorders are a range of conditions that affect a person's thoughts, emotions and behaviour
self defense	Claim that an act otherwise criminal was legally justifiable because it was necessary to protect a person or property from the threat or action of another.
prejudicial error	Similar to reversible error
contract	A written or verbal agreement for the exchange of goods or services between at least two parties.
juvenile	A child under 18 years of age.
right of survivorship	In a joint-tenancy, the property automatically goes to the co-owners if one of the co-owners dies
bad faith	Intent to deceive
annotation	This refers to published comment on the law
search warrant	An order that authorizes law enforcement to conduct a search and specifies the scope of the search
delete	To omit, leave out, or remove.
exculpatory clause	Provision or clause which excuses someone from responsibility
pro hac vice	For this occasion
guardian	A person appointed by will or by law to assume responsibility for incompetent adults or minor children
replevin	An action to recover goods wrongfully taken or withheld.
fraud	An intentional deception that financially injures another person(s) in any way.
c.a.r.	Abbreviation for "Colorado Appellate Rules".
parole revocation hearing	Normally a two-step process
et ux	The Latin phrase for "and wife."
modification	(a change or alteration)
xylon	- A punishment among the Greeks answering to stocks.
separation	The living apart of a married couple.
verification	An oral or written statement that something is true, usually sworn to under oath.
appeal	1
commitment order	A court order directing that a person be kept in custody, usually in a penal or mental institution.
duress	Where a person is prevented from acting (or not acting) according to their free will, by threats or force of another, it is said to be "Under duress"
claim	An allegation or request for monetary or other relief.
corporation	This is one of the ways that a business can be organized
exhibit	an item of physical evidence (a document or an object).
guardian	A person who has qualified as a guardian of a minor or incapacitated person pursuant to testamentary or court appointment, but excludes one who is merely a guardian ad litem.
trespass	A wrongful entry, whether with force or peacefully, onto the property of another.
probate court	Court with authority to supervise estate administration.
bond	1
statute	a law passed by a legislature
general practitioner	Your local doctor - or family doctor - who will usually be the first person you see if you have a physical illness or emotional problem
statute of limitations	Law establishing time within which a legal action must be initiated
affinity	Related by marriage; family relation from one's spouse's family.
municipal courts	Courts confined to the city or community in which they re established.
ordinance	The enactments of the legislative body of a local government.
appearance	The act of showing up in court, it implies you accept the power of the court to try the matter (jurisdiction)
yeven	- Given; dated
parole	The conditional release of a convicted offender from a jail or prison before the end of his sentence based upon requirements for the offender's behavior set and supervised by a parole agency.
objection to exemptions	A trustee's or creditor's objection to the debtor's attempt to claim certain property as exempt from liquidation by the trustee to creditors.
crimes code	Short title for Title 18 of Purdon's Pennsylvania Statutes, "Crimes and Offenses."
unjust taking	When the government acquires private property and fails to compensate an owner fairly
care pathway	A standard way of giving care or treatment to someone with a particular diagnosis.
no fault	Fault on the part of either party need not be shown or proved.
miranda rule	Requirement that police advise a suspect in custody of constitutional rights before questioning him/her
adjudicatory hearing	This is a trial to determine whether or not you are guilty.
stipulate	to enter into a binding agreement on an issue that is not genuinely in dispute
arson	The intentional and malicious starting of a fire
parent	Any person entitled to take, or who would be entitled to take if the child died without a will, as a parent under the probate code by intestate succession from the child whose relationship is in question and excludes any person who is only a stepparent, foster parent or grandparent.
personal service	For service on a natural person, the service must be on the named defendant
recognizance	See personal recognizance.
mittimus	Latin meaning, "we send"
blue sky laws	State statutes regulating sale of securities.
district court	In the federal court system, the trial court where federal criminal and civil cases are heard
fee	A fixed monetary charge for service rendered.
failure to appear	A criminal charge that is issued for a defendant who does not come to court as required.
breach of trust	Any act or omission on the part of the trustee, which is inconsistent with the terms of the trust agreement; or the law of trusts
exempt property	Certain property protected by law from creditors.
grantor	Person who sets up a trust
dissolution of marriage	Divorce
by-laws	A corporation's rules and regulations
assets	Property of all kinds, including real and personal, tangible and intangible.
execute	To complete the legal requirements (such as signing before witnesses) that make a will valid
split sentence	A sentence imposing a fine and imprisonment with the imprisonment part suspended or imposing a period of imprisonment, part of which is suspended and a period of probation is imposed.
abstract of title	Concise chronological history of all official records and recorded documents affecting title to a parcel of land.
psychologist	Someone who has done a psychology degree, then further training in helping people with emotional or psychological problems.Â  Psychologists can offer you therapy which involves talking about your difficulties and working together to overcome them
testate	One who has died leaving a will, or one who has made a will.
volens	Willing
offense	An act that violates the law
summary offense	In Pennsylvania a violation of law punishable by imprisonment for up to 90 days and/or a fine not exceeding $300.
mini-trial	A structured settlement process in which the principals involved meet at a hearing before a neutral advisor to present the merits of each side of the dispute, and attempt to formulate a voluntary settlement.
exigent circumstances	Emergency conditions.
ore tenus motion	An oral motion before the court.
ex parte proceeding	One in which only one side is represented
guardianship	The office, duty, or authority of a guardian.
not guilty plea	A formal response by a person accused of committing a specific crime in which he/she says that the charges are untrue.
health care assistants	A member of hospital staff who helps qualified nursing staff to care for patients on the ward.
arrest warrant	A written court order that authorizes law enforcement to arrest an individual
resisting arrest	Resisting arrest is the common term for the offense of resisting, obstructing, or delaying an officer in the lawful execution of his duties
bail	The release of arrested or imprisoned persons when security, cash, or property is given or pledged to ensure their appearance at a specified date and place
c.r.t.i.	Abbreviation for "Colorado Rules for Traffic Infractions".
ante	Before
caselaw	Collection of reported cases that form the body of law within a jurisdiction
reset	To re-calendar or set again.
health and safety code	The collection of laws in California regulating the health and safety of the population, including most of the drug laws criminalizing the possession and distribution of controlled substances
equity	Generally, justice or fairness
registrar	The official of the court designated to perform the functions as provided in and designated by the court by a written order filed and recorded in the office of the court of court and specified by the probate code.
penalty assessment	A sum of money added to a fine to offset the costs of some mandated public programs.
service	Delivery of legal papers to a person named in them and required to answer them
uifsa	An abbreviation of "Uniform Interstate Family Support Act".
jury	A certain number of men and women, selected according to law, and sworn to consider and decide matters of fact presented to them.   
will	Legal document that sets forth how an individual wants his/her property disposed of when he/she dies.
et al	All others.
venue	1
protection order	Non-criminal order obtained by abused spouse against abusive spouse.
privilege	A person's right not to testify on a matter or communication protected by law.
power of attorney	Document authorizing one to act legally for another.
violation	A breach of a right, duty, or law.
creditor	A person (or institution) to whom money is owed.
misfeasance	Improper performance of an act that might have been lawfully done
parole	The period after release from state prison during which a former prisoner is subject to certain restrictions and is monitored by state law enforcement officers
testate	A person who has made a will or who has died leaving a valid will; opposite of intestate.
c.r.c.c.p.	Abbreviation for " Colorado Rules of County Civil Procedure".
perjury	The act or an instance of a person deliberately making material false or misleading statements while under oath.
jurist	One who is skilled or versed in the law.
jury instructions	A judge's directions to the jury before it begins deliberations regarding the factual questions it must answer and the legal rules that it must apply.
appearance	1
fiduciary	A person who acts as a trustee or primarily for another person's benefit
license revocation	An order issued by the Department of Motor Vehicles invalidating a person's driver's license and prohibiting him or her from driving for any purpose
bequests	Gifts made in a will.
trust	Property given to a trustee to manage for the benefit of a third person
assertive outreach team	A team which will see a person more often than usual
examination of the return	See Audit.
continued	Postponed.
alzheimer's disease	Alzheimer's disease is the most common form of dementia, which describes the loss of mental abilities, such as memory and reasoning.
retirement	A type of dismissal of a criminal charge; can be reactivated under certain circumstances.
contract	An agreement between two or more people that creates an obligation to do or not to do a particular thing.
exclusionary rule	A rule prohibiting the use of illegally obtained evidence in criminal prosecutions
supersedeas	The name of a writ containing a command to stay the proceedings at law.
affirm	To uphold a decision made by a lower court.
parenting time	Previously known as "visitation"
citation	An order to appear in court at a certain place at a specified time
homicide	The killing of one human being by the act, procurement, or omission of another
embezzlement	A form of theft which consists of the fraudulent appropriation of property by a person, such as an employee, to whom it has been entrusted
common law marriage	A common law marriage comes about when a man and woman who are free to marry agree to live together as husband and wife without the formal ceremony
right to remain silent	see privilege against self-incrimination.
prothonotary	Chief clerk of any of various courts in some states, including those of Pennsylvania.
quash	To make void; to vacate: to annul; to set aside.
residuary estate	Also known as residue of the estate
caveator	One who files a caveat.
motion	Oral or written request before, during, or after a trial on which a court issues a ruling or order.
evidence	All the means by which a matter of fact, the truth of which is submitted for investigation, is established or disproved.
deem	To consider or be of an opinion: e.g., to deem it necessary.
living will	Also known as a medical directive or advance directive
incriminate	To hold another or oneself responsible for criminal misconduct.
probate estate	Estate property that may be disposed of by a will.
minor	A person under the age of 18 years
disposable income	Income not reasonably necessary for the maintenance or support of the debtor or dependents
penal	Of, relating to or involving punishment or penalties.
escrow	The placing of money, a deed, or real property in the hands of a third party to be held until the performance of a condition.
good faith	Honestly and without deception
endorse	To sign one's name on a document to authorize its content or transfer.
adjournment	Postponing or rescheduling a case or court session until another date or time
augmented estate	An estate reduced by funeral and administration expenses, homestead allowance, family allowances, exemptions, and enforceable claims to which is added value of property transferred to anyone other than bona fide purchaser and value of property owned by surviving spouse at decedent’s death.
interpleader	When two or more persons claim the same thing on a third party
versus	Lat
de facto	Latin, meaning "in fact" or "actually." Something that exists in fact but not as a matter of law.
infractions	Sometimes called violations
nuncupative will	An oral (unwritten) will.
in esse	In existence
murder	The unlawful killing of a human being by another with malice aforethought, either expressed or implied
costs	An award of money for expenses in a civil suit.
trust fund	Money, stocks, bonds, or securities held by or under the control of someone for the use and benefit of another.
self-defense	Use of force to protect one's self, family or property from harm or threatened harm by another.
security agreement	A contract between a lender and borrower that states that the lender can repossess the property a person has offered as collateral if the loan is not paid as agreed.
lien	Legal claim against another person's property as security for a debt, lasting until the debt has been paid.
breath test	A chemical analysis of one's breath to determine the percentage of alcohol fumes.
bankruptcy	Insolvency; a process governed by federal law to help when people cannot or will not pay their debts.
booking	The process of photographing, fingerprinting and recording identifying data of a suspect
issue of law	An issue involving interpretation of law where the facts are not disputed and from which only one conclusion can be drawn
orse	Otherwise
clinician	A term which is used to describe someone who provides care and treatment to patients, such as a nurse, psychiatrist or psychologist.
retaining lien	Gives a lawyer the right to hold on to your money or property (such as a deed) until you pay the bill.
secured debt	Debt in which debtor gives creditor a right to repossess property or goods (called collateral) if debtor defaults on the loan.
punitive damages	Money awarded as punishment for outrageous conduct and to deter future transgressions
cite	To summon or command ones presence
aggressive behaviour	Refers to physical aggression towards another person.
precept	Writ issued by person of authority commanding a subordinate official to perform an act.
audit	An official examination of records or accounts to check their accuracy and completeness.
trustee	Person or institution that oversees and manages a trust.
kidnapping	Unlawfully taking and carrying away a person by force and against his/her will.
opinion evidence	Evidence of what a witness thinks, believes, or infers as distinguished from personal knowledge of the facts
acknowledgment	Short declaration at end of a legal paper showing paper was duly executed and acknowledged.
common law marriage	In some states, a couple is considered married if they meet certain requirements, such as living together as husband and wife for a specific length of time
dba	Abbreviation for "doing business as"
bar examination	A state examination taken by prospective lawyers in order to be admitted and licensed to practice law.
infringement	Unauthorized use, typically of a patent or copyright.
confidentiality	The state or quality of being confidential; treated as private and not for publication.
liable	Legally responsible for.
provider	An organisation which provides health and/or social care services to local people.
pro se	Legal representation of oneself.
sealed record	A record closed by a court to further inspection by anyone unless ordered by the court
caveat emptor	Latin for "buyer beware." This rule generally applies to all sales between individuals
acute care	Short term treatment for diseases or illnesses that start quickly and have painful or distressing symptoms
xenodochium	- In the civil and old English law, an inn allowed by public license, for the entertainment of strangers, and other guests
substance abuse treatment	A special condition the court imposes that requires an individual to undergo testing and treatment for abuse of illegal drugs, prescription drugs, or alcohol
rule of court	Rules governing how a given court operates.
venue	Formerly spelled
homicide	Killing of one human being by another.
waiver	To give up a legal right voluntarily, intentionally, and with full knowledge of the consequences.
writ of habeas corpus	Orders the release of someone who has been unlawfully imprisoned.
inpatient	Someone who stays in hospital to receive care and treatment.
adr	Abbreviation for Alternative Dispute Resolution
cognitive analytic therapy	A 'talking therapy' which helps you to see how early relationships and experiences have affected how you see yourself, other people and how you behave
bankruptcy code	The informal name for title 11 of the United States Code (11 U.S.C
failure to appear	Not appearing in court when ordered to do so
in camera	In chambers, or in private
transfer	Any mode or means by which a debtor disposes of or parts with his/her property.
option	The right to make a choice; a purchased privilege which gives the holder the power to make the agreement.
revocable living trust	A trust created during the maker's lifetime that can be changed
self-defense	The protection of one's person or property against some injury attempted by another
psychoanalytic/psychodynamic therapy	A 'talking treatment' which looks at how your past relationships might be affecting how you currently feel, think and behave
authenticated	Means certified, when used in reference to copies of official documents, and only certification by the official having custody is required.
recuse	To excuse (oneself) or be excused from a criminal or civil proceeding because of conflict of interest
presentment	Declaration or document issued by grand jury on its own initiative, making accusation
pardon	An official release from responsibility and consequences for a crime, usually granted by the chief executive of a government.
ward	A person for who a guardian has been appointed
chapter 13 bankruptcy	A type of bankruptcy in which a person keeps his assets and pays creditors according to an approved plan.
vacate	To nullify, render void.
in forms pauperis	Frequently used by inmates filing papers to seek waiver of prepayment of filing fees in State courts.
marital property	The property, however titled, acquired by one or both parties during the marriage
exculpate	To free from blame or accusation, particularly in matters of small importance.  Compare exonerate.
battered child syndrome	Medical and psychological condition of a child who has suffered continuing injuries not inflicted accidentally and thus are presumed to have been inflicted by someone close to the child.
equitable	To deal fairly and equally with all concerned
amend	To add to or alter a charge that has been filed.
alternative dispute resolution	Methods for resolving problems without going to court
in futoro	In the future
mortgage	any conveyance, agreement or arrangement in which the property is used as security.
blood test	A test to measure a person’s BAC by drawing the blood, usually done in a hospital
consultant psychiatrist	The medical doctor with specialist experience and qualifications in mental illness and emotional disorders that has overall responsibility for your care
revenue	Income to a public entity to offset the cost of providing service.
administrator	An individual appointed by the court to manage the estate of a person who died without leaving a valid will.
minor	A person who does not have the legal rights of an adult
alleged	Claimed; asserted; charged.
commutation	The act of reducing a sentence
relief	See remedy.
care programme approach	This is for anyone who needs to see several people or organisations for their care or treatment
r.t.v.b.	Abbreviation for "Colorado Rules for County Court Violations Bureau."
copyright	A person's right to prevent others from copying works that he or she has written, authored or otherwise created.
alibi	At another place, Elsewhere
discretion	Power to exercise judgment, establish policy within general rules and principles of law
arrest of judgment	Act of delaying the effect of a judgment already entered.
letters	Includes: 1
habeas corpus - federal	Proceeding where a prisoner challenges the lawfulness of his imprisonment
service	Providing a copy of the papers being filed to the other side.
memorial	Abstract of a legal record
booking	Also known as "booked"
biomedical	Relating to biomedicine, the branch of medical science that applies biological principles to clinical practice.
partnership	This is one of the ways that a business can be organized
early intervention	A way of picking up the early signs of a serious mental illness
writ of habeas corpus	a document filed as a means of testing the legality of a restraint on a person's liberty, usually imprisonment
perjury	Deliberately making a false or misleading statement under oath.
escrow	Money or documents, (e.g., a deed), which are held ("in escrow") by a neutral third party until all conditions of an agreement are met.
united states code	The statutes setting forth federal law
assault	The touching of another person with an intent to harm, without that person’s consent
quitclaim deed	A deed that transfers the owner's interest to a buyer but does not guarantee that there are no other claims against the property.
jury commissioner	The local official responsible for providing lists of qualified prospective jurors to the court.
privilege against self-incrimination	a person's right to remain silent in the face of accusation or questioning by government agents
confession	A statement by an individual, either oral or written, admitting that he or she committed a certain offense (compare "admission").
district court	Lowest State trial court; a court of limited jurisdiction.
testator	The person who makes a will.
community service	Sentencing option whereby offender performs volunteer work for government, non-profit or community-based organizations.
family court	Court having jurisdiction over such family matters as child abuse and neglect, support, paternity and custody.
guardianship	Legal right given to a person to care for an individual or his/her property when that individual is deemed incapable of doing so for him/herself
testamentary capacity	Mental ability an individual must have to make a will.
code	Complete, systematic collection of laws.
undue	More than necessary; excessive.
personal recognizance	Promise of an accused person to the court that he will return to court when ordered to do so
backlog	A total inventory of cases that have not reached disposition within mandated timeframes.
order	a decision or direction made by a judicial authority
juris doctor	Doctor of Law
search warrant	a written court order authorizing a law enforcement officer to search certain premises for specified items and to seize the items described.
fine	A sum of money a person must pay as punishment because of an illegal act or omission.
pro tem	 Temporary.
codicil	A supplement to a will.
discharge	A release of a debtor from personal liability for certain dischargeable debts
basic research	Basic research aims to improve general scientific knowledge and understanding
encumbrance	A claim against property.
psychosis	Disorders involving distorted perceptions of reality - thinking, feeling, hearing and seeing - often with symptoms of hallucinations and delusions.
devisee	A person designated in a will to receive a devise
eviction	Action taken to legally dispossess a person of land or property.
caljic	California Jury Instructions, Criminal.
embezzlement	The fraudulent appropriation by a person to personal use or benefit of property or money entrusted by another.
slander	False and defamatory spoken words tending to harm another's reputation, business or means of livelihood
inter alia	Among other things.
breach	The breaking or violating of a duty that one owes to another person, as defined by law
libel	Published words or pictures that falsely and maliciously defame a person
c.r.j.p.	Abbreviation for "Colorado Rules of Juvenile Procedure".
overrule	Court's denial of a motion or objection raised to the court
kidnapping	The unlawful taking and carrying away of a human being by force and against his or her will.
locus in quo	Scene of the event
issue	Of a person means descendant as defined in intestate successions and wills.
electronic surveillance	Court-authorized interception by use of an electronic device of wire or oral communications; wiretapping; eavesdropping.
replevin	An action whereby the owner or person entitled to repossession of goods or chattels may recover those goods or chattels from one who has wrongfully distrained or taken or who wrongfully detains Replevin is designed to permit one having right to possession to recover from another who has either wrongfully taken or detained property
expunge	To physically erase, to white or strike out
tenancy by the entirety	See joint tenancy.
manslaughter	The unlawful killing of another without malice; may be either voluntary, upon sudden impulse, or involuntary.
kentucky rule	- In the allocation of dividends by trustees as between income and principal, all dividends whether paid in cash or stock are regarded as income though in most jurisdictions accepting this rule a dividend paid in the stock of the issuing corporation is considered principal and brings about an adjustment in the basis of such stock in the portfolio.
confessed judgment	An action seeking final judgment based upon a person agreeing, in advance, to the entry of judgment against them upon the occurrence or non-occurrence of an event, such as making a payment. 
cohabitation agreement	Also called a living-together contract
good time	A reduction in sentenced time in prison as a reward for good behavior
jurisdiction	The right and power to interpret and apply the law to a particular case
federal courts	courts established under the U.S
c.r.e.	Abbreviation for "Colorado Rules of Evidence"
home treatment	Home treatment is a way of helping people at home rather than in hospital
tort	A private or civil wrong, independent of contract; failure to perform some duty imposed by law or custom, resulting in injury to another.
doc	Abbreviation for "Department of Corrections".
legal age	Eighteen (18) years of age
vacate	to set aside.
indigent	Needy or impoverished
ada	A Federal law that prohibits discrimination against people with disabilities (Americans with Disabilities Act).
restitution	The requirement that an offender provide financial remuneration for the losses incurred by the victim
sanction	 A penalty or other type of enforcement used to bring about compliance with the law or with rules and regulations.
arbitration	The referral of a dispute to an impartial third person chosen by the parties to the dispute
sanction	Penalty for failure to comply with rule, order or law.
subrogate	To substitute one person in place of another with reference to a lawful claim.
lien	A claim that a person has upon the property of another as security for a debt owed.
parole	 The release of a prison inmate— granted by the U.S
certified copy	An official copy of a particular document from a case file that is notated as a true, complete, and authentic representation of the original document.
lapsed gift	Gift made in a will to a person who died before will-maker.
parole	the suspension of a convict's prison sentence and the convict's release from prison, at the discretion of an executive branch agency and conditioned on the convict's compliance with the terms of parole
criminal summons	Order commanding accused to appear in court
joint and several liability	Liability of more than one person for which each person may be sued for the entire amount of damages done by all
board of supervisors	Local governing body at the county level.
care co-ordinator	The person who is responsible for making sure that your care is properly planned and you get the help you need
remedy	Means by which right or privilege is enforced or violation of right or privilege is prevented, redressed or compensated
uphold	to allow a lower court's decision to stand as is
child	An individual entitled to take as a child under the probate code; by Intestate succession from the parent whose relationship is involved and excludes a person who is only a stepchild, a foster child, a grandchild, or any more remote descendant.
pleadings	That part of a party’s case in which he/she formally sets out the facts and legal argument which support that party’s position.
moral turpitude	Immorality, depravity; conduct so wicked as to be shocking to the community's moral sense.
non pros	Abbreviation of non prosequitur.
alias	indicating one was called by one or the other of two names.
restitution	The act of restoring or giving the equivalent for an injury, damage, or loss.
proceeding	A legal action
tenant	A person who rents property.
judicial review	Authority of court to review and declare unconstitutional actions of other branches of government.
waiver of fees	An action for an order permitting a person to obtain a good or service without having to pay the standard fee.
trust items	The specific things held in trust.
mortgage	A mortgage is an interest in land created by a written instrument providing security for the performance of a duty or the payment of a debt.
intestate succession	Process by which property of person who has died without a will or whose will has been revoked is distributed to others
dependent	In family law, refers to a person who is financially supported by another person, usually the parent
chief justice	Presiding justice of the Arizona Supreme Court.
malfeasance	Performance of an act that should not have been done at all
lease	Includes an oil, gas or other mineral lease.
declaration of invalidity	A court order that your marriage is null and void and has been null and void since the time of marriage
immediate cause	Last event in a series of events which causes another event, particularly an injury, to occur
c.p.c.	Abbreviation for "Colorado Probate Code".
embezzlement	Fraudulently taking property or money entrusted to one individual by another.
circuit court	an informal name for a U.S
homicide	The killing of another person
attorney	A lawyer; one who is licensed to act as a representative for another in a legal matter or proceeding; one who is licensed to practice law
certified	A copy is "certified" when the keeper of the records puts a stamp or seal on the copy and "certifies" that it is identical to the original.
substantive law	Law which creates, defines and regulates rights
malice	Intent to commit a wrongful act without just cause or excuse.
disability	Cause for a protective order as described in §15-14-401 C.R.S
plaintiff	A person who brings an action, party who complains or sues in an action
venue	the geographical place or county over which a court has jurisdiction.
time waiver	To relinquish the right to a specific amount of time in which a certain phase of the legal process would normally take place.
negligence	The failure to do something which an ordinary, reasonable, and prudent person under like circumstances would do, or the doing of something which an ordinary, reasonable and prudent person under like circumstances would not do.
title	Legal ownership of property, usually real property or automobiles.
robbery	Felonious taking of another's property, from his or her person or immediate presence and against his or her will, by means of force or fear.
community corrections	Public or privately operated community-based programs holding defendants in the community while providing them opportunities to work, attend school, or perform community services
prima facie	From the Latin: "From first view"; not requiring further support to establish existence, credibility, or validity
battery	An unlawful application of physical force to, or offensive touching of, another without his or her consent.
crim.p.	Abbreviation for "Colorado Rules of Criminal Procedure"
proposition 215	Also known as the "Compassionate Use Act," Proposition 215 permits qualified patients to possess a reasonable amount of marijuana and cultivate a reasonable number of marijuana plants in order to treat a malady for which a physician has recommended the use of marijuana
affirm	To make a solemn declaration; an oath used when a person does not want to swear to the truth of something.
sequester	 To separate
conflict of interest	A clash between public interest and the private pecuniary interest of the individual concerned
right of eminent domain	The government's right to acquire private property for public use.
microfilm	A photographic record on film of printed or other graphic matter.
proximate cause	Act legally sufficient to result in liability
fugitive	Someone who flees or escapes from authorities.
trustee	Person or institution that manages a trust.
waive/waiver	Giving up a legal right voluntarily, intentionally, and with full knowledge of the consequences.
leniency	Recommendation for a sentence less than the maximum allowed.
brain imaging	The process of taking pictures of the living brain.Â  This is done non-invasively, meaning that there is no need for procedures that involve entering the body.
impound	To seize and hold in the custody of the law; generally used in reference to objects or animals rather than people.
default	Failure to fulfill a legal or contractual obligation.
verbatim	Word for word; in the same words.
jurisdiction	The Court’s authority to hear your case
points and authorities	Also known as Ps and As
accused	The person against whom an accusation is made.
psychotherapy	A 'talking treatment' which aims to help people to understand their mental or emotional problems, change behaviour and thoughts or emotions to improve their well-being
obligee	The person who is to receive the benefit of some one else’s obligation, that "someone else" being the obligor.
dominium	Ownership
beneficiary	Person named in a will or insurance policy to receive money or property; person who receives benefits from a trust.
cease and desist order	Order of an administrative agency or court prohibiting a person or business from continuing a particular course of conduct.
battery	The intentional and unjustified touching of another person in a rude, angry or insolent manner
gross negligence	Failure to use even the slightest amount of care in a way that shows recklessness or willful disregard for the safety of others.
usury	The taking of more interest for the use of money than the law allows.
victim	Any person aggrieved by the conduct of an offender
burden of proof	 The duty to prove disputed facts
in pleno	In full
consecutive sentences	Two or more sentences served continuously, one right after another: e.g., consecutive sentences of 10 years and 5 years equal a total of 15 years served
testify	To provide live, sworn testimony in a criminal proceeding
testamentary trust	A trust created by the provisions in a will
redress	To set right; to remedy; to compensate.
petty offense	An offense the penalty for which does not exceed imprisonment for a period of three months or a fine of five hundred dollars.
due process	The regular course of administration of law through the courts
parole	The release of a prison inmate – granted by the U.S
citator	Publication used to trace the history and validity of a legal case by tabulation of some kind.
code	A collection of written laws arranged into chapters, table of contents, and index, and published by legislative authority
subpoena	An order to a witness to appear and testify at a specified time and place.
fugitive	A person who runs away or tries to escape.
informed consent	Except in the case of an emergency, a doctor must obtain a patient's agreement (informed consent) to any course of treatment
intestate	One who dies without leaving a will.
murder	Murder is typically defined as the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought
assume	An agreement to continue performing duties under a contract or lease.
deliberate	To consider all of the evidence and arguments presented in regard to a particular matter.
misfeasance	Lawful act performed in wrongful manner
weight of evidence	The balance or preponderance of evidence; the inclination of the greater amount of credible evidence to support one side of an issue.
suspend	To postpone, stay, or withhold certain conditions for a temporary period of time.
citation to appear	A legal paper requiring the named person to appear in court
bail bond	An obligation signed by the accused to secure his or her presence at trial, which he/she may lose by not appearing for trial
juvenile	A person under the age of 18 years
dependency	A relationship in which one depends on another for support in whole or in part.
compensatory damages	The amount of money to be paid by one person to another which covers only the actual cost or equivalent cost of the wrong or injury caused.
personal representative	The person who administers an estate
witness	One who testifies under oath as to what she/he has seen, heard or otherwise observed.
contingency fee	Also called a contingent fee
inventory	Number of cases in various stages of the court process.
arrears	A debt that is not paid on the due date adds up and accumulates as "arrears"
defamation	The publication of a statement that injures a person's reputation
court administrator	Person who assists the presiding judge in managing the court.
indigent	Generally, this term defines a person who is poor, needy, and who has no one to look to for support.
judicial officer	An officer of a court; someone charged with upholding the law, administering the judicial system.
charter	A city’s organic law
jurisdiction	1
quaeitur	The question is raised
impaired mental condition	A condition of mind, caused by mental disease or defect, which does not constitute insanity but prevents the person form forming the culpable mental state which is an essential element of the crime
property	Means both real and personal property or any interest therein and anything that may be the subject of ownership.
devise	Used as a noun - means a testamentary disposition of real or personal property
notice to appear	A citation or other written notice by law enforcement or the court requiring an individual to appear in court to answer a potential criminal charge against him or her
pro rata	In proportion
premises liability	Liability of landowners or those who are responsible for maintaining the property for activities or conditions occurring on the land.
attorney	A prosecutor in the federal court system.
descendant	All of the individual’s lineal descendants of all generations, with the relationship of parent and child at each generation being determined by the definitions of child and parent contained in the probate code.
good time	Reduction in time served in prison as reward for good behavior.
social worker	A professional who can help you with practical aspects of life, and who will often also have had training in psychological help
third party litigation	Civil suit brought against a person or entity only indirectly responsible for injury or loss, where another individual has direct responsibility
pro tempore	From the Latin: "For the time being" or "temporarily"; referee/commissioner sitting temporarily and provisionally for a judge; same as pro tem.
incompetent	A person lacking the capacity, legal qualification, or fitness to manage personal affairs or to discharge a required duty
affidavit of support	A written statement prepared by a local child support office to record the agreement of parents regarding child support payments.
proof	Quantity of evidence that tends to establish the existence of a fact at issue.
living trust	A trust created during the maker's lifetime
contract	[no-glossary]A written or oral agreement between two or more parties.[/no-glossary]
supervised release	Term of supervision served after a person is released from prison
real property	Land and all the things that are attached to it
incarceration	Imprisonment, confinement in a jail or penitentiary
confirmation	Approval of a plan of reorganization by a bankruptcy judge.
interim order	One made in the meantime, and until something is done.
dissolution	The legal end of a marriage.
ordinance	A law passed by a city, town, parish or county legislative body
calendar	An alphabetical, categorized list of each case to be heard in each courtroom every day
affidavit	A written or printed statement made under oath.
execute	To carry out all terms of a contract
conspiracy	An agreement between two or more persons to commit a criminal act
citation	A reference to a particular authority for a point of law
ward doctor	The psychiatrist responsible for your daily medical care and for prescribing any medication you may need
transfer cases	Cases going from one court or one jurisdiction to another.
costs	An award of money, or expenses, particularly in a civil suit, given by the defeated party to the prevailing party.
dissolution	The act of terminating a marriage; divorce
license suspension	An order issued by the Department of Motor Vehicles stating that a person is not permitted to drive for any purpose for a specified period of time
contempt	An act or omission that obstructs the orderly administration of justice or impairs the dignity, respect, or authority of the court
child abuse	Defined by state statutes
estate tax	Tax paid on an estate as it passes to the heirs.
neurodegeneration	Neurodegeneration is what happens when the cells of the brain and spinal cord deteriorate and are eventually lost
post traumatic stress disorder	If you have experienced a traumatic event, you may develop post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in the days, weeks or months after the incident
duress	The defense that a person committed a crime as a result of pressure or threat from another person
infraction	A violation of law not punishable by imprisonment
cross-complaint/cross-claim	A claim litigated by codefendant(s) or coplaintiff(s) against each other
order of protection	A court order requiring a person to stay away from and not bother or threaten another.
non sequitur	An inconsistent statement, it does not follow
levy	A legal process to obtain property or cash from the judgment debtor to satisfy a judgment.
nolo contendere	A Latin phrase meaning “I do not wish to contend.” Synonymous with guilty
testacy proceeding	A proceeding to establish a will or determine intestacy.
writ of assistance	A court order directing a sheriff or police officer to provide assistance in enforcing another court order (e.g., picking up children and returning them to their lawful custodian, or removing a batterer from a residence).
mandatory	Required, ordered.
statutes of fraud	Laws in most states to protect against false claims for payment from contracts that were not agreed upon
res gestae	Things done; rule under which a remark made spontaneously and concurrently with an incident carries an inherent degree of credibility and is admissible because of its spontaneous nature (excited utterance); an exception to the hearsay rule.
interlocutory	A legal term that means provisional, temporary or preliminary
ab extra	From outside
contempt of court	Any act calculated to embarrass, hinder, or obstruct a court, or calculated to lessen its authority or dignity
undersecured claim	A debt secured by property that is worth less than the amount of the debt.
petty theft	The theft of money, labor, or property of a value less than or equal to $400.00
foreclosure	When a borrower cannot repay a loan and the lender seeks to sell the property.
ab initio	Latin for "from the beginning."
in extenso	At full length
injunction	A court order directing a person to refrain from doing something or ordering the person to do something.
of interest	T
miranda warning	A four-part warning required to be given by police to a criminal suspect who has been arrested before custodial interrogation can take place
restorative justice	Restorative justice is a process whereby the parties with a stake in a particular offense come together to resolve collectively how to deal with the aftermath of the offense and its implications for the future
personal representative	Usually, the executor or administrator of a deceased person.
heir	A person who inherits or receives property from someone who has died.
lien	A charge on specific property that is designed to secure payment of a debt or performance of an obligation
rebuttal	The act of contradicting or overcoming the effect of a presumption or evidence.
conform copies	To receive or endorse file copies of an original document.
allege	To assert a fact in a pleading.
brokerage firm	See definition of Member Firm.
a.r.s.	Arizona Revised Statutes, books containing the laws enacted by the Arizona Legislature.
jointly and severally	Acting together and separately; anyone so liable can sue or be sued with or without others joining in the action.
implead	To sue; to prosecute
summary	Quickly executed.
due process	A fundamental principle of fairness in all legal matters, both civil and criminal, especially in the courts
statutes of limitations	Laws setting deadlines for filing lawsuits within a certain time after events occur that are the source of a claim.
special administrator	An appointment to preserve the estate or to secure its proper administration including is administration in circumstances where a general personal representative cannot or should not act - It may appear to the court that an emergency exists.
quasijudicial	The authority or discretion vested in an officer where that officer's acts partake of a judicial character.
official records	means each instrument that the clerk of the circuit court is required or authorized to record in the series of books called "Official Records" as provided for in s
anorexia	Anorexia nervosa is an eating disorder and a mental health condition
battery	Physical contact intended to harm someone
revoke	To cancel or nullify a legal document.
power of attorney	A document which gives a person the right or authority to make binding decision for another.
chambers	The offices of a judge and his or her staff.
writ of certiorari	An order issued by the U.S
money judgement	Part of a judgment that requires the payment of money.
promissory note	A written document by which one person promises to pay money to another.
extradition – extradite	This is the formal application process whereby the prosecuting authority of one jurisdiction seeks the turnover of a person who has been located in one state to the authorities in another state where that person has been accused of or convicted of a crime
epidemiology	Dealing with the incidence, distribution and possible control of diseases and other factors relating to health.
extortion	Illegally obtaining money or property by force, threat, intimidation, or undue or illegal power.
motion	An oral or written request made by a party to the court for a ruling or an order on a particular point
nunc pro tunc	Now for then; phrase used when an order is issued on one date but is effective as if issued on an earlier date when it should have been issued.
conspiracy	Two or more people joining together for the purpose of committing an unlawful act.
satisfaction	See accord and satisfaction.
home detention	Use of an electronic device to monitor the whereabouts and restrict the activities of a sentenced party in lieu of having the party serve time in jail
vulnerable adult	Adult who is physically or mentally incapable of providing for his/her daily needs.
nka	Abbreviation for "now known as".
law	Rules established by governing authorities to maintain order in a society.
personal representative	Person who administers legal affairs of another because of incapacity or death.
judgment debtor	The person that the judgment is ordered against.
claim	A creditor's assertion of a right to payment from a debtor or the debtor's property.
sanction	An imposed penalty.
valid claim	A grievance that can be resolved by legal action.
rights of the defendant	Various protections given to an accused by statute or constitution such as the right against self incrimination.
statute	Any written law passed by a state or federal legislative body
juvenile	Someone under the age of 18; not considered an adult by the court system.
nunc pro tunc	Now for then
consumer debts	Debts incurred for personal, as opposed to business, needs.
subscription	The act of writing one's name under a written instrument; the affixing one's signature to a document, whether for the purpose of authenticating or attesting it, of adopting it's terms as one's own expressions, or of binding one's self by an engagement which it contains.
privileged communication	Conversation that takes places within the context of a protected relationship, such as that between an attorney and client, a husband and wife, a priest and penitent, and a doctor and patient
third-party claim	An interest or share in levied property.
divorce	The final, legal ending of a marriage by a court order
modification	A change in an existing court order
mitigating circumstance	A circumstance which does not constitute a justification or excuse for an offense, but which may be considered as reducing the degree of moral culpability.
license restriction	An order issued by the Department of Motor Vehicles allowing a person to drive only for a limited purpose or under specified conditions
fraud	A type of criminal offense involving the use of deception or misrepresentation in order to obtain the money or property of another
dr 219	Property Transfer Form used to notify Florida State Department of Revenue of property transactions resulting in tax liabilities being incurred.
distress	The procedure of taking possession of the personal property of another to pay a debt which he owes.
judgment creditor	The person(s) in whose favor a judgment is ordered.
faciendum	Something which is to be done
indigent	Unable by reason of poverty or insufficient financial means to pay.
liquidation	The sale of a debtor's property with the proceeds to be used for the benefit of creditors.
sexual battery	The non-consensual touching of an intimate part of another person for purposes of sexual gratification
contract	an agreement between two or more persons that creates an obligation to do or not to do a particular thing.
enjoin	To command or require; to order that something be stopped.
holographic will	An un-witnessed handwritten will
partition	A court action to divide property
res ipsa loquitur	A Latin phrase that means, "the thing speaks for itself." Refers to situations when it is assumed that a person's injury was caused by the negligent action of another party because the accident was the sort that wouldn't occur unless someone was negligent.
talking therapy / treatment	A general term for treatments which involve talking in individual or group sessions with a trained mental health professional.
information	A written accusation charging a named person with the commission of an offense punishable as a felony
harassment	A term (as used in court) in relation to a pleading called Petition for Injunction Prohibiting Harassment
concurrent sentence	Prison terms for two or more offenses to be served at the same time, rather than one after the other
writ of habeas corpus	A court order compelling a Warden/Sheriff to bring a prisoner before a court at a specific date and time, most frequently to determine whether the prisoner is being held lawfully.   
tenancy in common	A type of joint ownership that allows a person to sell his share or leave it in a will without the consent of the other owners
remand	Send back.
insider	Any relative of the debtor or of a general partner of the debtor; partnership inwhich the debtor is a general partner; general partner of the debtor; or corporation of which the debtor is a director, officer, or person in control.
forgery	Falsely and fraudulently making or altering a document, e.g., a check.
equal protection clause	Portion of the Fourteenth Amendment to the U.S
appearance	Coming into court
collateral	An asset that a borrower agrees to give up if he or she fails to repay a loan.
successor personal representative	A personal representative, other than a special administrator who is appointed to succeed a previously appointed personal representative.
order	A formal written direction given by a member of the judiciary.
sentence	The penalty imposed on someone who has been found guilty of an offence or who pleaded guilty to an offence.
convey	To transfer title to property; to make known or communicate.
randomised controlled trial	RCT's are a type of scientific experiment commonly used in testing healthcare services and medications
negligence	The failure of a person to use that degree of care in a given situation which by law one is obligated to use in order to protect the rights and property of others.
federal public defender organization	As provided for in the Criminal Justice Act, an organization established within a federal judicial circuit to represent criminal defendants who cannot afford an adequate defense
parole/post-prison supervision	When a person is released from prison conditionally he or she is on parole
court of record	Any court that makes a contemporaneous record of the proceedings.
bona vacantia	Goods without an owner
bond	A deed or instrument that binds, restrains, or obligates a person
statute	An act of the General Assembly declaring, commanding, or prohibiting something.
stakeholders	People who have an interest and / or an involvement ('stake') in an organisation, its activities and its plans for the future
illicit	Not permitted or allowed; prohibited; unlawful; as an illicit trade.
indemnity	An obligation to provide compensation for a loss, hurt, or damage.
consensu	Unanimously or, by general consent
blood test	A chemical analysis of a blood sample from a person to determine the percentage of a foreign substance in the bloodstream.
incapacitated person	Any person who is impaired by reason of mental illness, mental deficiency, physical illness or disability, chronic use of drugs, chronic intoxicating or other cause (except minority) to the extent that he lacks sufficient understanding or capacity to make or communicate responsible decisions concerning his person.
case file	The folder that contains the official court documents for a specific case.
collusion	A secret agreement between two or more persons, who seem to have conflicting interests, to abuse the law or the legal system, deceive a court or to defraud a third party
emancipated	Refers to freeing of a child by his or her parents, which involves an entire surrender of the right to the care, custody, and earnings of such child as well as renunciation of parental duties.
false arrest	Arresting an individual without proper legal authority.
case file	a complete collection of every document in a case.
ordinance	The local legislation of a city, town, village, or county written by the local legislative body.
x-ray	An X-ray is a widely used diagnostic test to examine the inside of the body
doubt	Uncertainty of mind; the absence of a settled opinion or conviction; the attitude of mind towards the acceptance of or belief in a proposition, theory, or statement, in which the judgment is not at rest but inclines alternately to either side.
magnum opus	A great work of literature
estate tax	Generally, a tax on the privilege of transferring property to others after a person's death
insider	A director, officer, or person in control of the debtor; a partnership in which the debtor is a general partner; a general partner of the debtor; or a relative of a general partner, director, officer, or person in control of the debtor.
bind	To create a legal obligation upon oneself or upon another.
cease and desist order	An order of an administrative agency or court prohibiting a person or business from continuing a particular course of conduct.
fair market value	The amount for which an item can be sold on the open market by a willing seller to a willing buyer.
cognitive therapy	Psychological therapy in which cognition (thinking) is seen as the most significant factor in psychological problems and their treatment.
proceedings	Generally, the process of conducting judicial business before a court or other judicial officer
juvenile	Person who has not yet reached age (usually 18) at which he/she can be treated as adult for purposes of criminal law.
sum certain	Liquidated damages pursuant to contract, promissory note, law, etc.
court of common pleas	Intermediate original court in some states, including Pennsylvania, that usually has civil and criminal jurisdiction
heirs	Persons who are entitled by law to inherit the property of the deceased if there is no will specifying how it's divided.
incompetent	Person lacking the capacity, legal qualification or fitness to manage personal affairs or to discharge required duty.
willfully	Intentionally, as distinguished from accidentally, carelessly or inadvertently, but not necessarily maliciously.
c.r.m.	Abbreviation for "Colorado Rules for Magistrates"
executor	Personal representative, named in a will, who administers an estate.  Compare administrator.
wrongful detainer	(formerly known as Forcible Entry and Detainer) A proceeding for regaining possession from someone who has wrongfully taken or refused to surrender possession of property.
vice versa	The other way around
mistrial	The termination of a trial before its normal conclusion or a finding that a trial is invalid because of a procedural error
fair comment	Term used in libel law applying to statements relating to matters of public concern made by a writer in honest belief that they are true, even though they are not.
c.m.h.i.p.	Colorado Mental Health Institute of Pueblo
medical malpractice	A physician’s deviation from the applicable standard of care that a similar physician would exercise under the same circumstances.
commit	To send a person to prison, asylum or reformatory pursuant to court order.
moot	An issue which no longer has significance.
copyright	Right to literary property, giving authors, composers and other creators sole control over how that property is used.
phobia	A phobia is an extreme or irrational fear, for example a fear of heights or animals
nonfeasance	Failure to perform an act for which one is legally responsible
terminal	In terms of computers, the point at which input into the computer is carried out or where the computer output is printed or exhibited on an electronic screen.
minor	A person who is under eighteen (18) years of age.
schizophrenia	Schizophrenia is aÂ  mental health condition that causes a range of different psychological symptoms including hallucinations (hearing or seeing things that do not exist) and delusions (believing in things that are untrue).
psychological therapies	Psychological therapies are also known as 'talking therapies' or 'talking treatments'
interlocutory order	Any order given before the final order is issued
points and authorities	Also referred to as "P's and A's"
restitution	The act of making good or giving equivalent of any loss, damage, or injury.
bankruptcy	Statutes and judicial proceedings involving persons or businesses who cannot pay debts and seek assistance of court in getting a fresh start.
libel	Defamatory (false and injurious) written statements or materials, including movies or photographs.
nolo contendere	Also known as simply "nolo"
lis pendens	From the Latin: "A pending suit"; jurisdiction of a court over property until final disposition.
depression	When you're depressed, you may have feelings of extreme sadness that can last for a long time
in forma pauperis	"In the manner of a pauper." Permission given by the court to a person to file a case without payment of the required court fees because the person cannot pay them.
aka	Abbreviation for "also known as".
chambers	judge's office.
statute	A law passed by a legislature.
de novo	From the Latin: "About the new"; trying a matter again as if it had not been heard before.
no contact	A court order requiring someone not to have any communication or interaction with another person.
harassment	Used in variety of legal contexts to describe words, gestures, and actions which tend to annoy, alarm and abuse (verbally) another person.
estate	All properties owned by an individual when he/she dies.
nonfeasance	Failure to act (generally by public official).
class action	A lawsuit in which one or more members of a large group, or class, of individuals or other entities sue on behalf of the entire class
ordinance	Law enacted by a municipality such as a county or city council.
in rem	Procedural term used to designate proceedings or actions in determining the status of a thing or the rights of persons with respect to that thing
quid pro quo	Latin phrase that means "what for what" or "something for something"
mortgagee	He that takes or receives a mortgage.
grand theft	Grand theft in California is defined as a theft of money or property with a value over $400.00
statute	See "Criminal Law".
nunc pro tunc	From the Latin: "Now for then"; used when an order is issued on one date but is effective retroactively.
consolidate	A joining of two or more actions to be tried together.
common pleas court	See Court of Common Pleas.
duty	An obligation or conduct defined in the law as reasonable conduct in light of the perceived risk.
intestate	A person who dies without leaving or having left a valid will.
larceny	Obtaining property by fraud or deceit.
probation	A means of conditionally releasing an individual after trial.
res nulis	Nobody's property
panel	1
implied consent laws	Also called "express consent"
suppress	To stop or put an end to someone's activities
mental health treatment	Special condition the court imposes to require an individual to undergo evaluation and treatment for a mental disorder
moot	Issue previously decided or settled.  Of no practical importance.  Non-issue.
action	A judicial proceeding
ordinance	A regulation established by a local government to enforce, control, or limit certain activities.
chapter 11	A reorganization bankruptcy, usually involving a corporation or partnership
dui	The acronym for "driving under the influence" (also referred to as "DWI" an acronym for "driving while intoxicated") and generally refers to Vehicle Code section 23152(a) (which criminalizes driving under the influence of alcohol or any other controlled substance), and 23152(b) (which criminalizes driving with a blood alcohol concentration at or greater than .08%)
petition	A written request to the court for an order after notice.
right against self-incrimination	Granted by the Fifth Amendment
criminal insanity	Mental condition which renders a person unable to determine right from wrong
peace officer	A person charged with the duty to enforce and preserve the public peace
theft	See larceny.
visitation	The right of a separated or divorced parent to visit a child.
pour-over will	Will that leaves some or all estate assets to existing trust.
electronic monitoring program	An alternative to confinement in county jail which permits an individual to remain out of jail but monitored and confined to the person's home
res judicata	The matter already has been decided; a rule against relitigation of issues.
separation agreement	Written arrangements concerning custody or parental obligation, with child support, spousal maintenance and property division made by a married couple who are usually about to obtain a divorce or legal separation.
prior restraint	Restraint on speech or publication before it is spoken or published
intervenor	The non-requesting spouse in a section 6015 (“Innocent Spouse”) case.
central repository	The Criminal Justice Information System Central Repository of the Department of Pubic Safety and Correctional Services.
companion cases or codefendants	More than one person arrested on the same criminal incident.
nisi	Unless
attorney at law	A person admitted to practice law in his/her respective state and authorized to perform both civil and criminal legal functions for clients including drafting legal documents, giving of legal advice, and representing the client before courts, administrative agencies, boards, etc.
jurisdiction	The authority, capacity, power or right of a court to hear and decide a legal matter
contempt of court	Failure to obey a court order.  A disregard of, or disobedience to, the rules or orders of a judicial body or an interruption of its proceedings by disorderly behavior or insolent language.
sanction	A penalty or other type of enforcement used to bring about compliance with the law or with rules and regulations.
allegation	A statement of a party in a pleading.
personal property	Any movable physical property or intangible property which may be owned
sanction	To concur, confirm, or ratify
law enforcement unit	A State, county, or municipal police department or unit, the office of a Sheriff, the office of a State’s Attorney, or the office of the Attorney General of the State.
harmless error	Error committed during trial which was not serious enough to affect outcome of trial and thus is not grounds for reversal
issue	1
ordinance	Generally, a law enacted by a city or county.
accused	A person or persons formally charged but not yet tried for committing a crime.
judicial	Belonging to or appropriate to the office of a judge; relates to the administration of justice.
extradition	The formal process of delivering a person apprehended in one state to the authorities of the state in which that person has been accused or convicted of a crime.
pharmacology	The study of drugs and their uses and effects.
eminent domain	The right of the state to take private property for public use and provide fair compensation to the owner.
stay	An order stopping a judicial proceeding or execution of a judgment.
forgery	The false making or material altering, with intent to defraud, of any writing which, if genuine, might be the foundation of a legal liability.
comity	A code of etiquette that governs the interactions of courts in different states, localities and foreign countries
judgment debtor	The person who has been ordered by the court to make a money payment as a result of a civil suit.
warrant	Written order from the court directing an officer to arrest a person.
summons	An order to a sheriff or other officer to notify a named person that a civil action has been commenced against him or her and that he or she is required to appear within a specified period and answer the complaint
minor in possession	California law prohibits people under 21 years of age from possessing alcohol
order	A directive of the court, on a matter relating to the main proceedings, that decides a preliminary point or directs some steps in the proceedings
parens patriae	The juvenile justice system of America was formed under the idea of "parens patriae," or "state as parent." The state is deemed to have a responsibility to care for youths who have begun dangerous or criminal life patterns
administrator	1
breath test	A test to measure your breath alcohol content, usually done at a police station or a jail
custody	Physical control of a person
ordinance	A written law enacted by the legislative body of a county, township, or city.
execution	Carrying out some act or course of conduct to its completion
writ of certiorari	 An order issued by the U.S
concur	To agree, act together or consent
trustee	The person or institution that manages the property put in trust.
corpus	Body
levy	A seizure
third party	Person, business or government agency, etc., not actively involved in a legal proceeding, agreement or transaction, but who is somehow involved.
price fixing	When companies conspire to set prices and thus control or interfere with free market competition, they have violated antitrust laws
perjury	The criminal offense of making a false statement under oath.
conservatorship	See guardianship.
trustee	The person who has custody of or control over the funds or other items held in trust.
certified mail	Mail deposited with the US Postal Service, with postage prepaid and return receipt requested.
vicarious liability	When one person is liable for the negligent actions of another person, even though the first person was not directly responsible for the injury
personal jurisdiction	Adjudicative power of a court over an individual.
field sobriety tests	Various roadside exercises that are used by law enforcement officers to determine whether or not a person is likely to have an alcohol content at or above the legal limit
knowingly	With knowledge, willfully, with respect to a material element of an offense.
peace order	An emergency form of relief or an order available to individuals who are experiencing problems with another person, including someone in a dating relationship, a neighbor, or a stranger. 
title	Legal ownership of property.
lack of jurisdiction	Court's lack of power to act in a particular manner or to give certain kinds of relief.
psychiatrist	A medical doctor with specialist experience and qualifications in mental illness and emotional disorders
district	A geographic area of the state for which a district attorney is responsible.
obligor	The person who is contractually or legally, committed or obliged, to providing something to another person, the recipient of the benefit being called the obligee.
sequester	To separate
accused	A person or persons against whom a criminal proceeding is initiated
state	Any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, the commonwealth of Puerto Rico and any territory or insular possession subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
c.r.s.	Abbreviation for "Colorado Revised Statutes"
state’s attorney	A person authorized to prosecute an offense on behalf of the State or a political subdivision thereof.
post	A Latin prefix meaning "after", as in "post-trial" matters
of attorney	An instrument in writing whereby one person, as principal, appoints another as his agent and confers authority to perform certain specified acts or kinds of acts on behalf of principal.
kissing the book	- The ceremony of touching the lips to a copy of the Bible, used in administering oaths
agent	An attorney in fact under a durable or non-durable power of attorney, an individual authorized to make decisions for another under the "Colorado Patient Autonotomy Act".
residuary legatee	The person or persons named in a will to receive any residue left in an estate after the bequests of specific items are made.
chapter 13	The chapter of the Bankruptcy Code providing for the adjustment of debts of an individual with regular income, often referred to as a "wage-earner" plan
dissent	To disagree
de novo	Latin, meaning "anew." A trial de novo is a completely new trial
deferred payment	The court's granting additional time to pay a fine.
domicile	Place where a person has his/her permanent, legal home
u.s. constitution	the document written by the founders of this country, which establishes the basic structure and functions of the federal government, grants certain specified rights, often called constitutional rights, to the American people, and places limits on the powers and activities of our federal and state governments
business record	A business record is a document maintained in the ordinary course of business
absentee	One who is absent from his usual place of residence or domicile.
vice versa	Reversing the order; conversely.
forfeiture	The loss of money or property resulting from failure to meet a legal obligation.
intestate	Dying without having a will.
equity	A system supplemental to the law.
remand	 Send back.
probation revocation hearing	See parole revocation hearing.
urine test	Chemical analysis of a urine specimen to determine it's alcohol content or the presence of some other drug.